		BY COLIN BURKE THE DAILY IOWAN The Iowa House of Repre- sentatives will once again look into regulating under- age alcohol use through keg registration, and one local law-enforcement official said he supports the effort. A study bill referred to a subcommittee Tuesday asks legislators to examine how keg identification numbers and purchasing records — already in place in some Iowa counties — could pre- vent underage drinking. In the past, some legisla- tors have said tracking keg sales could hold accountable people purchasing alcohol for minors. Iowa City Police Chief Sam Hargadine said he sup- ports regulatory efforts, and he dismissed contentions that providing a list of alco- hol buyers would mean more work and dampened sales for vendors. “Considering what they’re making off the keg, I’m not very sympathetic,” WWW.DAILYIOWAN.COMTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2006 50¢ INDEX Arts Classifieds Crossword Opinions Sports 1C 4B 8A 6A 1B Þ Þ 28 -2 C 5 -15 C Cloudy, blustery,100% chance of snow/ sleet PLAY BALL The Hawkeye baseball team, with a spring in their step if not in the air, are back. 1B OF ALL THE NERVE Russian plans to begin destroying a large stockpile of VX nerve agent near Mirny are making residents, well, nervous 5A TIPSY BOATERS A measure in the Legislature would get tough with drunk boaters. The Daily Iowan THE INDEPENDENT DAILY NEWSPAPER FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF IOWA COMMUNITY SINCE 1868 Nick Loomis/The Daily Iowan An enthusiastic party-goer brandishes a finished keg at a house party on Melrose Avenue before the Iowa/Michigan game in Kinnick Stadium on Oct. 22, 2005. The party filled the backyard of the home, but the crowd quickly dispersed after the beer was gone and the game started. Nick Loomis/The Daily Iowan Iowa City City Councilor Connie Champion rides a university bus on Wednesday afternoon through the West Side of town at the conclusion of a Johnson County Council of Governments field trip to view developing areas in the county. The trip was planned by the council’s Urbanized Area Policy Board, and it included city officials from Iowa City, Coralville, North Liberty, Tiffin, and University Heights. The tour detailed the projects for each area in order to better acquaint elected officials with the development activities in the county. See story, 3A. OFFICIALS ON TOUR BY ERIKA BINEGAR THE DAILY IOWAN In an effort to add some youthful energy and spunk to area nonprofit organizations, the United Way of Johnson County has joined with the UI Student Government to hold the first UI Student Board Bank Training on Saturday. The free session, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the IMU, will fea- ture leaders of local nonprofits and focus on the skills neces- sary to help lead a nonprofit, said Connie Benton Wolfe, the executive director of the local United Way. After training, the United Way will help students transform that advice into action by involving them in local causes. “I think it’s a wonderful opportunity for students who want to become involved in community leadership,” Benton Wolfe said. Andrea Folsom, the student representative on the Crisis Center Board of Directors, said the student voice is one that must be heard in Iowa City. But, BY MARGARET POE THE DAILY IOWAN Salad-munchers shearing fat from their diets faced an identity crisis last week after a major national study reported a low-fat lifestyle does not prevent heart disease and cancer. But a UI researcher participat- ing in the decade-long study said the results, though inconclusive, do not justify unlimited indul- gence in fat-laden goodies — much to the chagrin of personal- pan pizza lovers everywhere. UI Professor Robert Wallace, who studies epidemiology and internal medicine, first joined the nationwide project in 1992. Dubbed the Women’s Health Ini- tiative, the research analyzed sev- eral areas of preventive health, UI STUDENT BOARD BANK TRAINING Day: Feb. 18 Time: 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Where: IMU third floor • Applications will be accepted until Friday. • Applications can be used as a referral to nonprofits looking for board or committee members, if the applicant is interested. • Return completed applications to UISG President Mark Kresowik or Iowa City City Councilor Regenia Bailey, the United Way Board Bank for UI Students Coordinator. • info@unitedwayjc.org Registering kegs on tap Iowa City’s police chief says he supports legislation requiring keg registration IOWA LEGISLATURE SEE KEGS, PAGE 7A Nonprofits seeking out UI students SEE NONPROFIT, PAGE 7A Low-fat fallout A national study, which included two UI researchers, appears to show no link between low-fat diets and reduction in heart disease and cancer among women 50-79 SEE DIETS, PAGE 7A Handmade notes Some locals aren’t content with merely makingmusic, they make the instruments, too. 1C 2A - The Daily Iowan - Iowa City, Iowa - Thursday, February 16, 2006 NEWS BY DANNY VALENTINE THE DAILY IOWAN DES MOINES — Student government representatives from the state’s three public universities lobbied state law- makers to increase support for their schools by $40 million Wednesday, a request that has thus far received little support. The all-day effort, called Regents’ Day at the Capitol, was designed to build support for the second year of the four- year Partnership for Transfor- mation and Excellence Plan, which aims to increase state funding by $40 million a year over four years. Last year, lawmakers gave the plan $24 million, which was supplemented by $15 million from the Iowa Values Fund. “In order to maintain that excellence that our universi- ties have, we need to continue that funding,” Jenny Rokes, the board’s student-regent, told a crowd of mostly stu- dents — and a few legislators — gathered in the Capitol rotunda. Regent Robert Downer agreed, saying the Partnership Plan is, “a way to get badly needed additional funding into the system.” Both regents and student rep- resentatives argued the money not only would improve the schools but would keep tuition stable and in the end benefit the state through a higher college- graduate retention rate because they would have smaller debts. Downer, an Iowa City resi- dent, said Iowa’s economic well- being could be hurt by increased tuition, as indebted graduates exit the state to find higher paying jobs — making cases similar to that of Allen Bierbaum less prevalent. Bierbaum, the president and CEO of Ames-based Infis- cape, said he stayed local because of support from Iowa State University. “I don’t think we could have done it,” the ISU Ph.D. student said. “Having someone there as your right-hand man has helped tremendously.” Despite the warnings from students, lawmakers have thus far been unreceptive to the plan. A version of a House bill still stuck in committee accords just $6 million to the regents’ plan — a number that dis- mayed UI Student Government President Mark Kresowik. “Students will tell you their No. 1 concern is tuition,” he said. The UI has seen unpredictable tuition hikes in recent history, ranging from 18.5 percent in 2002 to 4 percent in 2005. While tuition hikes are a yearly inevitability, several stu- dents in attendance said not funding the plan would leave some low-income prospective students out in the Iowa cold. “The Partnership Plan will ensure that our schools can con- tinue to offer exceptional educa- tional opportunities for Iowa’s students and keep tuition affordable for Iowa’s families,” UI senior Bridget Henry said. The real work wasn’t done at the formal speech, however, but in one-on-one chats with state representatives. Kresowik, who this year formed a student lobbying effort at the UI, skillfully chatted up state legislators, delicately urg- ing them to keep tuition stable and to support education. Contentions that affordable school means more young Iowans, however, did not sway some lawmakers. “Do you know what keeps people in Iowa? Jobs. Nothing else,” said Rep. Joe Hutter, R- Bettendorf. Despite the setbacks, UI stu- dents left the capital city confi- dent their efforts had had an effect. “If you are constantly in their face, they can’t forget you,” said Kresowik. “They even say it is good that we are up there.” E-mail DI reporter Danny Valentine at: daniel-valentine@uoiwa.edu BY ERIC PAPE THE DAILY IOWAN A bill proposed by a member of the Iowa House of Representatives could change the way Johnson County boaters plan their day on the water. The bill, introduced by Rep. Mike May, R-Spirit Lake, would lower the current .10 blood alcohol limit for motorboat and sailboat operators to .08, consistent with the limit for motor vehicles. He said he is concerned about recreation aficionados who dock up and visit bars on prominent lakes, such as West Okoboji, and “get intox- icated and try to drive their boats back across the lake.” “We think that there should be the same level of concern on the lake as there is on the road,” he said on Wednesday. Randy Edwards, an assistant chief of law enforcement for the Iowa Department of Natural Resources, said boating while intoxicated arrests in Iowa are starting to “inch up” to 25-30 a year. “We see no reason that [the blood alcohol level] shouldn’t be the same,” he said. Boaters under the .10 limit may continue drinking because they are not cited, and then they may eventually end up on the road, he said. Johnson County resident Roger Hardin, who frequently boats on the Coralville Reservoir using his Seadoo Jet Boat, said he supports the change. “If it’s going to make being out there safer for everyone on the water, then I’m for it,” he said. “I don’t think it should be any different from what the law is for drinking and driving in your car.” Hardin said he has encountered numerous people on the reservoir partying and drinking. Erika Anderson, a Johnson County conservation officer, said intoxicated boaters are “a consistent problem, especially on bigger waters, where there are coves where people congre- gate and party.” Patrolling and calls from other boaters that someone is operating in an unsafe manner helps identify drinkers, she said. “For the most part, stopping the boat for violating the law in some other way and by talking to opera- tors and checking for safety equip- ment in the boat is when you realize they have had too much to drink,” she said. Anderson said there is “no certain target group of violators” but that certain lakes are more attractive to partiers than others. E-mail DI reporter Eric Pape at: eric-pape@uiowa.edu Tomas Agusta-Lopez, 24, address unknown, was charged Wednesday with public intoxication. Kevin Belcher, 21, 730 Brown St., was charged Wednesday with OWI. Lauren Bjerregaard, 18, 616 Reinow, was charged Tuesday with pres- ence in a bar after hours. Amy Bollinger, 19, 311A Mayflower, was charged Wednesday with PAULA. Lisa Britton, 19, 831C Mayflower, was charged Wednesday with PAULA. Elizabeth Crowley, 18, 410 Slater, was charged Wednesday with PAULA and presence in a bar after hours. Ryan Devoe, 18, 4202 Burge, was charged Wednesday PAULA and presence in a bar after hours. Adam Filarski, 18, N113 Currier, was charged Wednesday with pub- lic intoxication. Cassandra Heady, 19, 421 Slater, was charged Tuesday with PAULA. Jessica Myers, 19, 624 S. Gilbert St. Apt. 6, was charged Wednesday with PAULA. Rochelle Novick, 18, Cedar Rapids, was charged Wednesday with PAULA, presence in a bar after hours, and unlawful use of authentic driver’s license/ID of another. Jenna Prenta, 18, 538C Mayflower, was charged Wednesday with presence in a bar after hours and PAULA. Maria Shelton, 19, 634 Reinow, was charged Wednesday with PAULA. Jennifer Soler, 18, 246 Currier, was charged Wednesday with obstructing an officer, presence in a bar after hours, and PAULA. Allison Strueter, 19, 5321 Currier, was charged Wednesday with PAULA. Kim Taikyoung, 34, 800 W. Benton St. Apt. 316A, was charged Tuesday with disorderly conduct and assault causing injury. County given draft of road projects The annual five-year construction program for work on secondary roads in Johnson County was presented to the Board of Supervisors and more than 30 community mem- bers Wednesday night. The plan includes fiscal years 2007-2011 and reviews grade and paving projects, rehabilitation projects, and bridges and culverts. County engineer Greg Parker present- ed the recommendations. The documents given to the supervisors were empha- sized by Parker as being drafts that may change. “It’s a dynamic document,” he said. “There are going to be so many variables that could move a product to another fiscal year.” Some roads highlighted in the meeting include the inter- section of Derby Avenue and 120th Street, which is sched- uled to be done by this summer, and 540th Street, which Supervisor Rod Sullivan said has traffic problems caused by buggies. The road-construction program will have to be approved by the Iowa Department of Transportation by April 15. — by Jennifer Lickteig SEATS to get new buses The Johnson County SEATS program will receive nine new paratransit buses through funding from federal, coun- ty, and city governments, operations supervisor Kathy Davis said on Wednesday. The program has received five new buses from Iowa City, and it is scheduled to receive two more through grant money, from both Coralville and the East Central Iowa Council of Governments, she said. The new buses will be diesel-fueled and “nice and new,” she said. SEATS provides transportation for the mentally and phys- ically disabled, as well as the elderly. According to the program’s website, people can schedule rides by calling the number listed on the site at least a day in advance of pickup. Riders can request a subscription for recurring rides. — by Rebecca McKanna Foundation speaks out on anonymity The UI Foundation released a position paper Wednesday explaining why it has kept their donors’ names anonymous. In the paper, the foundation said anonymity was in part to protect donors rather than the foundation itself. Iowa law authorizes records of donations to be open to the public, but when the stipulation was enacted, private contributors fell outside of that realm, allowing their names to remain unknown. The Iowa State University Foundation came under fire in 2005, when staff members were accused of violating the law by not releasing donors’ names, and the case went to the Iowa Supreme Court. The UI Foundation said in its position paper that this is not a means to overturn the case, though the foundation has been asked for donors’ name in the past, interim President Chuck Kierscht said Wednesday. Kierscht said the UI’s stance on anonymity is to honor it for contributors who would prefer it; other contributors’ names can be found in the foundation’s annual report. “We want to make sure Iowa is donor-friendly,” he said. — by Meghan V. Malloy BREAKING NEWS Phone: (319) 335-6063 E-mail: daily-iowan@uiowa.edu Fax: 335-6184 CORRECTIONS Call: 335-6030 Policy: The Daily Iowan strives for accuracy and fairness in the reporting of news. If a report is wrong or mis- leading, a request for a correction or a clarification may be made. PUBLISHING INFO The Daily Iowan (USPS 143.360)is published by Student Publications Inc., E131 Adler Journalism Building, Iowa City, Iowa 52242-2004, daily except Saturdays, Sundays, legal and universi- ty holidays, and university vacations. Periodicals postage paid at the Iowa City Post Office under the Act of Congress of March 2, 1879. SUBSCRIPTIONS Call: Pete Recker at 335-5783 E-mail: daily-iowan-circ@uiowa.edu Subscription rates: Iowa City and Coralville: $20 for one semester, $40 for two semesters, $10 for summer session, $50 for full year. Out of town: $40 for one semester, $80 for two semesters, $15 for summer session, $95 all year. Send address changes to: The Daily Iowan, 100 Adler Journalism Building, Iowa City, Iowa 52242-2004. STAFF Publisher: William Casey. . . . . . . . . . . . 335-5788 Editor: Jennifer Sturm. . . . . . . . . . . .335-6030 Managing Editor: Alex Lang. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 335-5855 Metro Editors: Drew Kerr. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 335-6063 Jane Slusark. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .335-6063 Danielle Stratton-Coulter . . . . 335-6063 Opinions Editor: Erik Owomoyela. . . . . . . . . . .335-5863 Sports Editor: Jason Brummond. . . . . . . . . 335-5848 Arts Editor: Meghan Sims . . . . . . . . . . . 335-5851 Copy Chief: Beau Elliot. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .335-6030 Design Editor: Lindsay Wall. . . . . . . . . . . . . 335-6030 Photo Editor: Laura Schmitt. . . . . . . . . . . . .335-5852 Web Editor: Tony Phan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .335-5829 Business Manager: Debra Plath. . . . . . . . . . . . . .335-5786 Advertising Manager: Cathy Witt. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .335-5794 Classified Ads Manager: Cristine Perry. . . . . . . . . . . . .335-5784 Circulation Manager: Pete Recker. . . . . . . . . . . . . .335-5783 Day Production Manager: Heidi Owen. . . . . . . . . . . . . .335-5789 Night Production Manager: Bob Foley. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .335-5789 The Daily Iowan Volume 137 Issue 144 Beth Skogen/The Daily Iowan UI graduate student Jeff Strom plays the vibraphone as the UI Latin Jazz Ensemble performs on Wednesday morning for residents of Emerson Point, an assisted-living community in Iowa City. GOOD VIBRATIONS Bill targets drunk boaters Students push for more funds METRO POLICE BLOTTER BY MIKE GLOVER ASSOCIATED PRESS DES MOINES — Secre- tary of State Chet Culver joined forces with former gubernatori- al rival Patty Ju d g e o n Wednesday, narrowing the f ie ld of Democratic rivals and reshaping the race for the state ’s top elective office. “This is the ticket that will win in June, win in November, and be ready to govern in January,” Culver said at a Statehouse news conference. “This is no time to slow down to stop or retreat.” Capping two weeks of bar- gaining, Judge announced she would drop her campaign for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination and accept Cul- ver’s invitation to join the ticket as his running mate. “I think we are an awesome ticket,” Judge said. Judge served two terms in the Iowa Senate before win- ning election twice as the state’s first female aecretary of Agriculture. She launched a campaign for the Democra- tic gubernatorial nomination eight months ago, but she has struggled with fundrais- ing, eventually pouring some of her own money into the campaign. “The campaign still has some debt on the books,” Judge said. “We’ll worry about debt after it’s all over.” Culver praised Judge, say- ing she brings a series of strengths to the table.As a for- mer nurse, farmer, state legis- lator, and statewide elected official, she is a political veter- an, Culver said. “She has won election four times in the last 15 years,” Culver said. “Patty knows how to win.” Judge called on other Demo- cratic candidates to follow her lead and drop out of the race, an invitation they quickly rejected. Matt Paul, a spokesman for former Iowa Department of Economic Development head Michael Blouin, rejected that suggestion by Judge of align- ing forces with Culver. He said Blouin has collected the back- ing of six major labor groups, representing more than 20,000 workers. “There is clear momentum behind Mike,” Paul said. Gov. Tom Vilsack said a competitive primary in 1998 helped make him a better can- didate and that having numerousl candidates can be positive for Democrats. “I don’t think I would have won the general election with- out having been through a tough primary,” Vilsack said. “It’s actually a good thing for the party.” State Rep. Ed Fallon, of Des Moines, has criticized Judge for raising money from corpo- rate farming interests, and he said that baggage now shifts to Culver. “The money behind her campaign has now been thrown behind Culver,” Fallon said. “I think Iowans have con- cerns about that.” Culver and Judge made their announcement at a series of news conferences across the state, capped by an event in Albia, Judge’s home town. In making the announce- ment, both Culver and Judge drew distinctions with Blouin, who takes an anti-abortion stand. Judge made it clear she will underscore that point dur- ing the campaign for the June 6 primary. As a nurse, Judge said she will always back a woman’s rights to make her own health care decisions and “our party and our state do not need a governor who will not stand up for that right.” Culver, Judge join forcesBY LEE HERMISTONTHE DAILY IOWAN Just sit right back, and you’ll hear a tale, a tale of a fateful trip that started from Iowa City Hall, aboard a mighty bus. More than 20 passengers set sail that cloudy day for a three-hour tour, a three-hour tour. On Wednesday, Johnson County Council of Govern- ments members toured Iowa City, University Heights, Coralville, Tiffin, North Liberty, and the UI campus as part of a field trip to give the officials a better look at developing urbanized areas in the region. As the wheels on a Hawkeye tour bus carried them throughout the area, repre- sentatives from each town took turns pointing out the developing areas, while the other passengers spoke and laughed among themselves. Iowa City City Councilor Dee Vanderhoef took a break from the joking to discuss the importance of the trip to the governments council. She said she had been making tours such as this on her own over the last two years. Looking at transportation plans on a flat map made it difficult to make the best decisions for the indi- vidual areas, she said, and she hoped the members of the tour would be “visual inspectors” in order to get a “good feel of the total region.” The event included a look at developing residential and industrial areas, new roads and parks, soccer and field-hockey fields, as well as countless plots of undeveloped land. While Vanderhoef said the tour didn’t inspire any new plans for the city, she was able to get a better look at certain areas the city has been working on — including connecting the South River Trail to a new recreational area and improving the trans- portation system near Dubuque Street and Foster Road. “I hadn’t seen a lot of this stuff in Iowa City,” said Coralville city administrator Kelly Hayworth during the whirlwind tour. Some of the members of the tour joked with one another in the back of the bus until a cer- tain reporter sat in their midst, provoking a more business-like demeanor. “Do you have an effect on women like this all the time?” ribbed Hayworth. Personal attacks aside, the tourists maintained a light- hearted attitude throughout the trip. A member of the tour suggested repeating the trip next year aboard bicycles, taking advantage of the region’s many bike and walk- ing paths. “Only if I can have a motor- ized bike,” said Vanderhoef, but added, “I’m having a great time.” The governments council director and tour leader Jeff Davidson shared Vanderhoef ’s views about the importance of the tour. “I think it’s really informative,” he said. “I know I’ve learned a lot.” Even the captain of the hero- ic vessel, UI mechanic Gerald Brumley, enjoyed his excursion. “It’s a break from my regular job,” he said. E-mail DI reporter Lee Hermiston at: lee-hermiston@uiowa.edu NEWS The Daily Iowan - Iowa City, Iowa - Thursday, February 16, 2006 - 3A Named: Tech Assoc 1/4 6/15/04 Ued Creator: MS Nick Loomis/The Daily Iowan Johnson County assistant transportation planner John Yapp holds the map of the route to be taken by bus driver Gerald Brumley during a governmental field trip on Wednesday afternoon. The route started in Iowa City and proceeded through Coralville, Tiffin, North Liberty, University Heights, and the UI to demonstrate the progress of development projects in the area. Officials have a field day Nick Loomis/The Daily Iowan Senior Iowa City planner Bob Miklo gives the details of a development project in northeast Iowa City to a bus full of Johnson County officials on Wednesday afternoon. Judge former gubernatorial candidate ‘I think it’s really informative. I know I’ve learned a lot.’ — governments council director and tour leader Jeff Davidson NEWS 4A - The Daily Iowan - Iowa City, Iowa - Thursday, February 16, 2006 BY LARA JAKES JORDAN ASSOCIATED PRESS WASHINGTON — Acknowl- edging delayed aid and fum- bled coordination, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said on Wednesday that the federal response to Hurricane Katrina fell far short of providing immediate help to the Gulf Coast that could have saved lives. Chertoff ’s Senate testimony came the same day a House panel released a scathing report concluding that deaths, damage, and suffering could have been decreased if the White House and federal, state, and local officials had respond- ed more urgently to Katrina. “There are many lapses that occurred, and I’ve certainly spent a lot of time personally, probably since last fall, think- ing about things that might have been done differently,” Chertoff told the Senate Home- land Security and Governmen- tal Affairs Committee about the Aug. 29 storm. He called the hurricane “one of the most difficult and trau- matic experiences of my life.” Katrina was one of the costli- est and deadliest natural disas- ters in U.S. history, killing more than 1,300 people, causing tens of billions of dollars in damage, and forcing hundreds of thou- sands from their homes. The House report — called “A Failure of Initiative” — found ample fault with state and local officials, including delays in ordering early evacu- ations in New Orleans. But it also criticized President Bush for failing to get more deeply involved as the crisis unfolded. In a sampling of 63 commu- nications to the White House that the report documents, at least eight were dated before Katrina’s Aug. 29 landfall. The documents show that presiden- tial advisers were warned about potential disaster as early as Aug. 27. Chertoff, who took over Homeland Security a year ago Wednesday, oversees the Fed- eral Emergency Management Agency, which coordinated the federal response. He promised the senators he would repair many of the shortfalls by the start of the 2006 hurricane season June 1. “Our logistics capability in Katrina was woefully inade- quate,” he said. “I was aston- ished to see we didn’t have the capability most 21st-century corporations have to track the flow of goods and services.” Republican and Democratic senators alike lectured Chertoff for his department’s lackluster performance. Committee Chairwoman Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, said Homeland Security’s response “must be judged a failure.” She called it “late, uncertain, and ineffective.” Federal disaster responders “ran around like Keystone Kops, uncertain about what they were supposed to do or uncertain how to do it,” said Sen. Joe Lieberman of Connecti- cut, the panel’s top Democrat. Lieberman needled Chertoff on why the security chief was in Atlanta at a bird-flu semi- nar on Aug. 30, the day after Katrina hit, instead of rushing to the disaster scene. “How could you go to bed that night [Aug. 29] not know- ing what was going on in New Orleans?” Lieberman asked. Chertoff maintained he did not realize that New Orleans levees had been breached until the next day. The levee failure resulted in massive flooding over most of the city, stranding people on rooftops and rendering much of New Orleans uninhabitable. “When I went to bed, it was my belief … that actually the storm had not done the worst that could be imagined,” Chertoff said. The lack of urgency was the core of the House panel’s con- clusions in a report detailing “a litany of mistakes, misjudg- ments, lapses, and absurdities all cascading together, blinding us to what was coming and hobbling any collective effort to respond.” The 520-page report added, “Government failed because it did not learn from past experi- ences, or because lessons thought to be learned were somehow not implemented.” In one memo that reached the White House shortly after mid- night Aug. 30, a FEMA official reported levee breaches, sub- merged houses, hundreds of peo- ple on rooftops, and bodies float- ing in the water. Others, two days later, described a shooting of a National Guardsman at the Superdome and a hostage situa- tion at Tulane Hospital that turned out to be false. Official admits Katrina goofs I was astonished to see we didn’t have the capa- bility most 21st-century corporations have to track the flow of goods and services.’ —Michael Chertoff Dennis Cook/Associated Press U.S. Rep. Tom Davis, R-Va., looks at a poster-size cover for the report from the House Select Committee on Hurricane Katrina on Wednesday. The committee on Wednesday issued its critical report on the response to Katrina. BY WALTER PINCUS AND DAN EGGEN WASHINGTON POST WASHINGTON — The National Counterterrorism Center maintains a central repository of 325,000 names of alleged international terrorism suspects or people who aid them, a number that has more than quadrupled since the fall of 2003, according to countert- errorism officials. The list kept by the National Counterterrorism Center — cre- ated in 2004 to be the primary U.S. terrorism intelligence agency — contains a far greater number of international terrorist suspects and associated names in a single government database than has previously been dis- closed. Because the same person may appear under different name spellings or aliases, the true number of separate individ- uals is estimated to be more than 200,000, according to counterter- rorism-center officials. U.S. citizens make up “only a very, very small fraction” of that number, said an administration official, who spoke on the condi- tion of anonymity because of his agency’s policies. “The vast majority are non-U.S. persons and do not live in the U.S.,” he added. An counterterrorism- center official refused to say how many on the list — put together from reports supplied by the CIA, FBI, National Secu- rity Agency, and other agencies — were U.S. citizens. The NSA is a key provider of information for the counterter- rorism-center database,although officials refused to say how many names on the list are linked to the agency’s controversial domestic eavesdropping effort. Under the program, the NSA has conducted wiretaps on an unknown number of U.S. citizens without war- rants. The govern- ment has been trying to streamline what countert- errorism offi- cials say are more than 26 terrorism- related data- bases compiled by agencies throughout the intelligence and law enforce- ment communities. Names from the counterterrorism-center list are provided to the FBI’s Ter- rorist Screening Center, which in turn provides names for watch lists maintained by the Transportation Security Administration and other agen- cies. Civil-liberties advocates and privacy experts said they were surprised by the size of the counterterrorism-center data- base and said it further height- ens their concerns that such government terrorism lists include the names of large num- bers of innocent people. Timothy Sparapani, a legislative counsel for privacy rights at the Ameri- can Civil Liberties Union, called the numbers “shocking but, unfortunately, not surprising.” Asked whether names in the repository were collected through the NSA’s domestic-intelligence intercept program, the countert- errorism center official said, “Our database includes names of known and suspected interna- tional terrorists provided by all intelligence community organi- zations, including NSA.” Attorney General Alberto Gon- zales told the Senate Judiciary Committee last week that he could not discuss specifics but said: “Information is collected, information is retained, and information disseminated in a way to protect the privacy inter- 300K make terrorism list Gonzales attorney general NEWS The Daily Iowan - Iowa City, Iowa - Thursday, February 16, 2006 - 5A BY SCOTT CALVERT BALTIMORE SUN DIEPSLOOT, South Africa — At dusk, Joshua Masekoameng burrows into his history books as an escape from the shanty- town that is his home, but it is hard to ignore the setting. A high-school senior, he does his schoolwork by candlelight. The 10-by-20 foot shack that he shares with his mother, two sisters, and a nephew lacks electricity and running water. There are four corrugated metal walls, a metal roof, a con- crete floor, a faded shag carpet, a single bed, and an old stereo mute on a battered shelf — but that is all. “I love history very much,” Masekoameng said, reading a textbook last updated in 1988. “History talks about life, the olden days when peo- ple were fighting. A long time ago, people weren’t equal. Now, we are equal.” Equal — up to a point. Since the end of apartheid, an explo- sion of shantytowns, many of them within urban townships, has made a mockery of the gov- ernment’s promise of “adequate” housing for all. Since 1994, the government has provided 1.8 million hous- es at little or no cost. But the backlog of people waiting for government housing has grown to 2.4 million house- holds, says national housing spokesman Ndivhuwo Mabaya. As many as 12 mil- lion people now live in crude shelters lacking basic services — a quarter of the country’s population and a 50 percent increase from a decade ago. The cause is not a mystery: People from rural areas who decades ago were forcibly moved to remote “homelands” under apartheid are flocking to South Africa’s largest cities for work, joined by immigrants from other parts of Africa. They find too few jobs paying enough for families to afford even a modest house. In a faint echo of the anti- apartheid tactics of the 1980s, a growing number of people are taking to the streets to protest the lack of services, as well as local government corruption. In November, police fired rubber bullets on protesters in a shanty- town near Durban, injuring two. Diepsloot, 15 miles north of Johannesburg and almost within sight of a wealthy sub- urb, was the first community to erupt, in July 2004, amid rumors that residents would be moved farther from Johan- nesburg. Protesters threw stones at cars, and police made numerous arrests. The governing African National Congress has been scrambling to respond. With an eye on the country’s March 1 local government elections,Pres- ident Thabo Mbeki this month announced a $67 billion pro- gram to provide all South Africans with clean water and sanitation by 2010 and electrici- ty by 2012.The campaign slogan of the opposition Democratic Alliance is: “Stop Corruption, Start Delivery.” The unrest poses little immediate threat to the ANC at the polls. In addition to dominating the national gov- ernment, the party controls local governments in seven of the country’s nine provinces. But the street protests have prodded the country’s leaders to act faster — and may thus be able to do more for the poor than can the country’s opposi- tion parties, said Adam Habib of the Human Sciences Research Council in Pretoria. Poverty still racks S. Africa BY PETER FINN WASHINGTON POST MIRNY, Russia — On a closed military base just outside this small town cut from a for- est along the Trans-Siberian railroad sits one of Russia’s deadliest stockpiles of chemical weapons. Nearly 7,000 tons of chemical agents are packed inside 40,000 aerial bombs that are secured in containers made of concrete and steel. Broken down into individual doses, that’s enough agent to kill everyone on the planet. Sometime this year, Russian authorities are to begin to neu- tralize most of the 4,000 tons of VX nerve agent in the stockpile to meet a deadline under the Chemical Weapons Convention of 1992, which calls for 20 per- cent of the country’s chemical arsenal to be destroyed by April 2007. As the moment of destruction nears, some residents of Mirny and the surrounding farmlands are living in dread. But the will- ingness of residents to struggle against the plant defies notions about the political passivity of Russians, particularly those liv- ing in the countryside. And it illustrates how the Russian gov- ernment now has to contend with civic activism in even the most remote areas, if an issue is sufficiently galvanizing. The authorities have been forced to engage their adver- saries in debate, even though some officials, particularly in Moscow, have treated the objec- tions of residents with con- tempt. A government newspa- per even mused about how such public resistance would never have been tolerated in Soviet times. Local residents learned of what was on their doorstep only after the fall of the Soviet Union. Echoing the criticism of some Russian and international spe- cialists, many citizens here fear that the military is rushing for- ward with an untested method of destruction. The authorities are not prepared, they contend, for a serious accident, which could have untold consequences for the 4,000 people of Mirny and tens of thousands more liv- ing in two surrounding districts. Officials are “in a hurry, and they’re using a technology that has never been tried before,” said Tatyana Koroleva, a school- teacher in Mirny, which means “peaceful.” “Life is cheap in Rus- sia. People are very afraid that we will be betrayed.” This is a critical year for Rus- sia, under the Chemical Weapons Convention, which aims to achieve the complete destruction of the weapons worldwide by 2012. Russia and the United States have the largest arsenals. So far, Russia has destroyed just 1 percent of its stockpile, at seven sites — compared with 35 percent in the United States, at nine sites. Plans call for the bombs stored at the Maradykovsky facility outside this town to be moved by hand from their stor- age places to an adjacent destruction building, which is under construction. There, workers will cut off the tops of the bombs, pour water contain- ing neutralizing additives on the VX, then reseal the bombs. In three months, Russian offi- cials say, the mixture inside the bombs prompts a slow reaction and leaves a residue that has low toxicity. “In reality, it will be fast,” said Mikhail Manin, a for- mer military officer and the sen- ior official overseeing the destruction process in the regional capital of Kirov in cen- tral Russia. “We believe it’s more reliable than other methods.” Two destruction plants, Kam- barka in the Ural Mountains region and Maradykovsky here, 550 miles east of Moscow, are meant to begin operation in 2006. The Kambarka facility, which holds lewisite, a blister- ing agent that contains arsenic, is scheduled to start March 1, after several delays. Most of the U.S. plants under- went an 18-month testing period of an automated method of destruction, said Paul Walker, the legacy-program director at Global Green USA. It is the American affiliate of Green Cross International, a organiza- tion founded by former Soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev to address the environmental con- sequences of war and conflict. Despite the lengthy prepara- tion in the United States, acci- dents occurred. “In a few cases, there were explosions that dam- aged the robots,” Walker said. In Russia, there will be very little, if any, time for testing, if the April 2007 deadline is to be met. “People are concerned over safety and spillage, especially for the workers,”Walker said.“We’re all really hopeful, even though we remain deeply concerned over the safety and the efficacy of an unproven technology.” Lev Fedorov, a scientist, activist, and president of Rus- sia’s Union for Chemical Safety, contends that the water-based neutralization of the bombs has not been properly tested. His group fears that the resealed bombs could rupture from the internal pressure of the reac- tion between the agent and the water-based solution. Russian town nervous about arms stockpile ‘People are concerned over safety and spillage, especially for the workers. We’re all really hopefull, even though we remain deeply concerned over the safety and the efficiency of an unproven technology.’ – Paul Walker Obed Zilwa/Associated Press An unidentified homeless man stands in front of an informal settlement in Cape Town, South Africa, on Wednesday. South African Finance Minister Trevor Manuel announced measures to help the poor in his budget announcement Wednesday. While studying at the Main Library ITC the other day, I was very much tempted to remove the signs gracing nearly every pillar informing the lab’s users that cell- phone use is forbidden. The reason- ing behind this desire: Few people follow the rule; we might as well clear wall space for something else. It is commonplace to hear users carrying on personal conversations, utterly oblivious to the fact they are surrounded by other people. Although some make the attempt to move the chat to a hallway or stair- well, the result is usually the user simply begins to speak more loudly into the phone, apparently thinking that the distance of a few feet or the thin walls of the study lounge create a magical sound barrier. My impulsive provocation aside, cell-phone use in a quiet public area, such as the library, is disheartening on several levels. Not only does this demon- strate disrespect to surrounding people, it is also a sign of disregard for the formal structures that gov- ern our conduct in society. This behavior illustrates the chronic plague of entitlement that has descended upon our society. This is a product not just of apathy but also a sense of “deservingness,” the idea that the rules simply do not apply to oneself. One could cite numerous exam- ples of entitlement notions and the consequent disrespect that results — for example, pedestrians walking in front of cars when the car has the right of way or students turning in late work and expecting full credit. I focus on cell-phone use because the rapid proliferation of personal entertainment and communication technology-and the changing pat- terns of its use-are possible expla- nations for this lack of propriety, not merely evidence of it. Even when in public, many peo- ple are desperately alone, cut off from the surrounding world. With a phone glued to one side of the head and the earbud of a headphone attached to the other, the digitally addicted plunge into a wireless abyss. A selfless, yet in this case not severely inconvenient, desire to make someone else’s life more toler- able is the foundation of respect. When we remove ourselves from our surroundings, consideration for other people is the casualty. No one can survive without some form of community. We constrain our free choice, in this case the choice to bother someone unneces- sarily, because of a sense of duty to the society of which we are a part and to the other people, from family to acquaintances to complete strangers that our lives intersect with. This, according to British jurist John Fletcher Moulton, is the measure of a nation. The significance of all this is that selfishness manifests itself in dan- gerous ways. For example, that we are at war still has not truly dawned upon most of us. The sacri- fices that should have ensued when substantial fighting commenced never actually occurred. Here in the Heartland, we like to boast about our loyal support for our troops. In fact, one can display a yellow ribbon in a declaration of this steadfast commitment. But we are oblivious, much like the mind- less cell-phone user tangled in a web of self-indulgence, to the fact that we really have not committed much. If we were really sacrificing, we would be the ones eating K- Rations and taking the bus to work. The soldiers would receive whatev- er funding necessary to complete their job, as safely as possible. Perhaps this link is a stretch, but I believe that the patterns of behav- ior that result from the notion that at any given moment we have the right to be entertaining ourselves has ramifications that extend far- ther than most of us realize. The point is that there should not need to be signs in the library informing people not to be bother- some. It would behoove us to make a critical and searching inventory of our values, as manifested in every- day actions. Moulton famously described the realm of manners as the “domain of obedience to the unenforceable.” Think about that, the next time you reach for your cell phone in the ITC. Columnist Lydia Pfaff, a political-science and history major, can be reached at lydia-pfaff@uiowa.edu. 6A - The Daily Iowan - Iowa City, Iowa - Thursday, February 16, 2006 Talking, three hours, but with texting and other uses, about four and a half.” ON THE SPOT “ Lisa Jorgensen UI freshman JENNIFER STURM Editor • ERIK OWOMOYELA Opinions Editor • ALEX LANG Managing Editor • DREW KERR Metro Editor CHAD ALDEMAN, JAYNE LADY, LAURA MICHAELS, CLAIRE MILLER, ANDREW SWIFT Editorial writers How much time do you spend on your cell phone each day? Thirty minutes.” “ Tom Heidenreich UI sophomore Probably an hour, maybe.“ Megan Brockman UI sophomore Half an hour.”“ Richard Stiles UI freshman OPINIONS EDITORIALS reflect the majority opinion of the DI Editorial Board and not the opinion of the Publisher, Student Publications Inc., or the University of Iowa. GUEST OPINIONS, COMMENTARIES, CARTOONS, and COLUMNS reflect the opinions of the authors and are not necessarily those of the Editorial Board. LETTERS TO THE EDITOR may be sent via e-mail to daily-iowan@uiowa.edu (as text, not as attachment). Each letter must be signed and include an address and phone number for verification. Letters should not exceed 300 words. The DI reserves the right to edit for length and clarity. The DI will publish only one letter per author per month. Letters will be chosen for publication by the editors according to space considerations. No advertisements or mass mailings, please. GUEST OPINIONS that exceed 300 words in length must be arranged with the Opinions editor at least three days prior to the desired date of publication. Guest opinions are selected in accordance with word length, subject relevance, and space considerations. MAKE AN IMPACT daily-iowan@uiowa.edu You can influence our students, our university, and many, many others. Just write to: EDITORIAL LETTERS COMMENTARY LYDIA PFAFF ” On Wednesday in Des Moines, the state Board of Regents and the state of Iowa sponsored Innovation Iowa, an event intended to focus on the positive effect the state’s public universities have on the economy. This comes at an appropriate time. As issues such as the regents’ role in choosing a new UI president seem ready to widen the perceived divide between the Legislature and the university, economic concerns are consistently central to the debate. But if anyone is to blame for a sluggish economy, it certainly isn’t the UI. Utilizing universities to stimulate the economy is an important joint effort between the state and the schools. Whenever this relationship is strained, over issues such as UI’s presidential search, critics of increased state involvement often blame the Legislature’s economic goals. In this case, Sen. Michael Connolly, D-Dubuque, the co-head of the Senate Education Committee, said economic development was one area that could be improved by more regent involvement in the search, because legislators wanted the university to “have a stronger effort there.” This sequence of logic makes sense, but isn’t exactly fair. Iowa’s uni- versities have been increasing their economic effect year after year, and the trend is definitely going to continue. For instance, technologies licensed from the three regent universities earned Iowa businesses $27.24 million in the last fiscal year, up from the $17.2 million they earned just two years ago. The UI is working to continue this expansion into the private sector in conjunction with the regents. A section of the university’s Strategic Plan for 2005-2010 contains such goals as “increasing partnerships with state, community, and regional economic-development organizations that par- ticipate in business recruitment, retention, and growth activities,” and “facilitating the transfer of university technology and intellectual prop- erty to the business sector.” The university wants to expand its econom- ic impact, just as much as the state of Iowa does. We’re not saying the UI can’t do anything more to improve the state’s economy, so the Legislature should leave it alone. The university could certainly expand its effort, and it needs to work with the Iowa govern- ment to do so. But it’s not as if the UI has been twiddling its thumbs on the Pentacrest, jabbering about literature (or whatever the Legislature thinks universities do), while the economy suffers. It’s been providing the state with 13,000 jobs, drawing in $359.6 million in outside research and program funding per fiscal year, and stimulating the economy with a budget of $2.191 billion in revenues and expenses. We hope that Legislature is not trying to assert more control over the uni- versity purely to increase its economic effect. Because what the state acknowledged at Innovation Iowa is correct:The UI is doing numerous things to enrich Iowa’s economy and will continue to do so. That the university has a huge economic impact is not a good enough excuse to justify unwanted and unnecessary control over sensitive issues, such as the selection of a new pres- ident. The Legislature should continue to support and further this contribu- tion rather than chastise the university for not doing enough. Since joining the World Trade Organization in 2001, China has proved to be serious about honoring its commitments. It has rewritten laws and regu- lations to comply with WTO rules, so much so that the United States and the European Union, which bring high-profile cases against each other before WTO tribunals, have a hard time identifying cases to bring against China. But China is treating its WTO commitments as a ceiling, not a floor. It appears unwilling to modify its behavior in other areas, and this may strain its relations with the United States. China’s currency policy is a case in point. Last summer, it allowed its cur- rency to appreciate by 2 percent against the dollar, and it hinted that more steps would follow. Since then, the Chinese yuan has barely risen, and its continuing undervaluation has fueled an enormous trade surplus. This invites a protectionist backlash in the United States. Sens. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., and Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., have proposed legislation that would impose punitive tariffs on China until it fixes its currency policy, and a majority of senators appear to back the idea. Last year, the Bush administra- tion persuaded the Senate to hold off while it talked the Chinese into revalu- ing for their own good: A flexible exchange rate would help China avoid boom-and-bust cycles. But China’s refusal to take more than baby steps is undermining the administration’s efforts to restrain Congress. Schumer plans to return to the currency issue in upcoming Senate hearings. China also could do more to abide by the spirit as well as the letter of WTO rules. Intellectual-property protections illustrate the point: Chinese laws comply with WTO requirements, and music or film studios that file com- plaints about copyright violations tend to have their complaints upheld. But this barely dents the rampant piracy in China, because the pirates build the modest fines into their cost of doing business. This week, Rob Portman, the U.S. trade representative, issued a “top-to-bottom review” of U.S.-China trade relations that spotlighted other areas of concern. China’s government pro- curement should be more transparent. It should quit smuggling subsidies to domestic firms through WTO loopholes. China also needs to rethink its sinister policy of turning U.S. Internet firms into police auxiliaries. It has recruited Cisco Systems to build a system of Internet routers that blocks Chinese users from foreign websites deemed to be unsuitable by Beijing’s censors. It has ordered Yahoo to surrender the names of e-mail users who subsequently were imprisoned. It has allowed Google and Microsoft to offer services in China, provided that they bow to censorship. China needs to understand that neither Congress nor U.S. public opinion is likely to allow American companies to carry on this collaboration forever. House hearings Wednesday featuring all four firms signal that China’s Inter- net policy has joined the list of flash points in bilateral relations. China’s emergence as a global economic power over the past quarter-centu- ry has been a wonderful thing, lifting hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. But China is now too big to get away with a minimalist definition of its obligations to the outside world. Its currency policies affect global trade imbalances. Its intellectual property protections affect the value of copy- rights, worldwide. Its 100 million Internet users are bound to attract the attention of Western advocates of free speech and their allies in Congress. Riches and power bring broad responsibilities. This editorial appeared in Wednesday’s Washington Post. Office aid In regards to Bryce Bauer’s article (“Officials pro- pose suicide office,” Feb. 14), it seems in a world full of computers, cell phones, fax machines, and MP3players, we often forget about smaller issues at hand. Other people do need a helping hand every once in a while. Statistically, about once a day we lose a fellow Iowan and so many more hundreds of Americans because of this savage type of death. Late last year, my father was one of those people. While ample counseling service was offered to me at the university following his death, I quickly declined. I think I rejected the help because I thought I could- n’t relate to anyone else. Suicide is a unique con- cept, a unique idea that is hard to approach or deal with. I have managed my pain and have learned to cope very well, but I believe a Suicide Center would have helped me. I applaud Sen. Joe Bolkcom’s efforts. It’s nice to see a senator stop and take action on an issue rarely given much attention. I hope they receive the $250,000 they need to imple- ment this help center. Nicholas Clark UI student Lose Leach As a senior business major at the UI and a 2nd District Democrat, I would be happy if Rep. James Leach, R-Iowa, were named the new president at the UI. The Board of Regents would then be handing the 2nd Congressional District seat to Democratic challenger David Loebsack, who would more closely represent the views of the largely Democratic district. Leach does not offer any solutions to the challenges facing students who wish to pur- sue higher education. Over the last six years, under Republican policies, tuition costs have increased by 60 percent. Leach, a party loy- alist, has also been supportive of the recent- ly indicted Tom DeLay, who personifies the Republican culture of corruption. And, let’s not forget Leach’s vote in favor of the 2004 Medicare drug-prescrip- tion program, the Bush administration’s gift to lobbyists and drug manufacturers whose profits in 2002 were more than all other Fortune 500 companies combined. Our elected representatives should be working for us, not the private interests of lobbyists and HMOs. The Republican-con- trolled Congress has failed to serve aver- age Americans. Voters of Iowa’s 2nd District should replace Leach with a real Democrat, David Loebsack. Keith Nelson UI student UISG ELECTIONS 2006 On Feb. 27, your ideas could feature in The Daily Iowan’s UISG debate: Send us the questions you want the candidates to answer, and tell us what issues you care about. Just write to daily-iowan@uiowa.edu — and, if you want your thoughts printed as letters, as well, just include your contact info. Entitlement society University’s impact big for Iowa China’s commitments and responsibilities House OKs move to protect property owners DES MOINES (AP) — The House approved a measure Wednesday that would help prop- erty owners protect their land from government seizure. The package would require local governments to show they are acting within their condemna- tion powers, which the U.S. Supreme Court expanded last year by ruling that land could be seized for economic development. “The biggest reason for the whole bill is it shifts the burden” to local governments, said Rep. Jeff Kaufmann, R-Wilton. “To me that is a crucial shift.” The House approved the pack- age 83-15, sending it to the Senate and an uncertain future in a chamber deadlocked at 25-25. Before approving the bill, the House rejected efforts to reduce restrictions on government power. The package would prohibit local governments from taking private property from one owner and giving it to another private owner for economic development purposes. It also bans govern- ments from seizing land for proj- ects that would bolster tax collec- tions or create jobs. If land is seized, compensation boards could no longer meet pri- vately to determine how much to pay a property owner. BY JULIA SILVERMAN ASSOCIATED PRESS SALEM, Ore. — Approximate- ly 15 states are vying to be cho- sen as one of the few that will be allowed some leeway in how stu- dent progress is measured under the No Child Left Behind Act, the federal education law criticized by some as overly rigid. Applications are due Friday, three months after Education Secretary Margaret Spellings announced that states would be allowed to seek some flexibility. Under the current law, schools are expected to show year-to-year improvement in test scores — for example, this year’s third-grade scores are compared with last year’s. Under the pilot program, how- ever, schools will be allowed to chart how individual students are doing on standardized tests from one year to the next. The idea is the latest move by the Bush administration to allow more breathing room in the No Child Left Behind law. The administration is also giv- ing rural teachers more time to become “highly qualified” and allowing more exemptions for severely disabled students. The 2001 law is set for a tough reauthorization battle in Congress next year, and even some Republicans are calling for more flexibility. The results of the experimental program could affect the debate. The applications are coming from states urban and rural, red and blue, including Florida, Ohio, Arizona, Alaska, Hawaii, and Oregon. Other states plan- ning to apply include Indiana, Colorado, Delaware, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, and Tennessee. A maximum of 10 states will be chosen by this spring. Under No Child Left Behind’s current incarnation, schools must bring all students up to grade level in reading and math by the year 2014. Schools that fail to get increasing percentages of students up to scratch face a series of consequences, from hav- ing to pay for after-school tutor- ing to a state takeover. Because of the tough stan- dards, thousands of schools across the country has been list- ed as “needing improvement.” Some teachers, principals, superintendents and state offi- cials have long backed the idea of tracking the progress of indi- vidual students from year to year. That kind of information “can be a telling story,” said Roger Sampson, Alaska’s education commissioner. “If we look at how kids are progressing, it gives us solid data to say whether our instruction is hitting the mark.” However, some activists are afraid states will use the new approach to shirk their obliga- tion to raise the test scores of minorities and immigrants. The new approach “is going to have to ensure that those stu- dents who are very far behind are going to make more than one year’s progress in one year’s schooling. We are not sure states are prepared to ask that of their teachers,” said Dianne Piche of the Citizens Commis- sion on Civil Rights, a Washing- ton advocacy group. NEWS The Daily Iowan - Iowa City, Iowa - Thursday, February 16, 2006 - 7A he said. “The alcohol industry has never had a bad year.” He said his force would not use registrations to direct them to parties where under- age drinkers could be imbib- ing. Instead, the police will continue to rely on citizen com- plaints, he said. “Just because they’re listed as having a keg doesn’t mean we’re going to be stopping by,” he said. Hargadine added that the department would use the records for investigative pur- poses, especially if the keg were in possession of a minor. But a local businessman has experienced this kind of debate before and said the state’s approach may be misguided. Doug Alberhasky, the “Bier Guy” at John’s Grocery, 401 E. Market St., said the Legisla- ture’s perspective on regulat- ing underage drinking is out- dated. “They’re trying to regulate the laws for the horse and buggy,” he said. In terms of the store’s prof- its, he said, keg sales represent a tiny margin, mostly because he believes few people throw large parties and because of changing keg prices over the last 10 years. With or without a law, the store could cooperate with police by giving investigators keg receipts and remaining tough on carding purchasers, he said. Rep. Cecil Dolecheck, R- Mount Ayr, sponsored a bill calling for similar oversight during last year’s session at the behest of constituents con- cerned about underage drink- ing. Regulations already in place by local governments across Iowa need statewide applica- bility, because purchasers can simply buy the beer in an unregulated neighboring area, he said. Laurie Luettjohann owns T- N-T Liquor in Sigourney, Iowa, where a countywide keg-regis- tration law requires her busi- ness to track keg buyers. She said she still supports the effort, even though “since that went into effect, we sell about half of what we used to.” E-mail DI reporter Colin Burke at: colin-burke@uiowa.edu KEGS CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1A the 25-year-old added, it is a voice that “can often be over- looked.” Folsom, who is pursuing a master’s degree in social work at the UI, began volunteering at the Crisis Center in 2004 and assumed a leadership role on the board in January. “I have had the opportunity to work with other community members about issues I’m passionate about,” she said, adding that she will attend the training on Saturday to learn more about fundraising and how to engage others. Similar training has been offered to the community for five years, but Saturday’s ses- sion is designed specifically for UI students, Benton Wolfe said.A UI grant, administered by a Year of Civic Engage- ment committee, helped expand the effort, she said. As an architect of the stu- dent-centered training, UISG President Mark Kresowik said the goal is to engage stu- dents, reach out to new groups, and establish a com- mitment to volunteering. “We’re creating the connec- tions, and that lifelong com- mitment will go a long way to benefit students and the com- munity,” he said, noting that students can apply for the training until Friday. Deb Dunkhase, the execu- tive director of the nonprofit Iowa Children’s Museum, said the hope is for students in leadership roles to become dedicated to the cause after graduation. The museum, which aims to provide an environment of informal and active learning for kids, is housed in Coral Ridge Mall and is partly led by three UI students. UI graduate student Erin Pfaff, a member of the muse- um’s Board of Directors since July 2005, is one of those stu- dents. As such, she attends monthly committee and board meetings and helps with the nonprofit’s finances, develop- ment, and fundraising, she said. Dunkhase said the three students — all committed to a year of leadership — have been extremely helpful. “They really bring a fresh perspective to all of our board discussions, in dealing with operational issues,” she said. “They’ve really helped us focus on running the museum from a volunteer viewpoint.” The number of volunteers has tripled this year thanks to the student-board members, Dunkhase added. From a financial stand- point, Pfaff said, training would have been helpful before taking her seat on the museum’s board. “Having that kind of knowl- edge going into it is always helpful,” she said. E-mail DI reporter Erika Binegar at: erika-binegar@uiowa.edu NONPROFIT CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1A but it was last week’s publica- tion in the Journal of the Ameri- can Medical Association that has received widespread press for its seemingly counterintu- itive findings. The diet study, which followed 48,835 women ages 50 to 79, did not find statistically significant reductions in colorectal cancer, heart disease, or breast cancer among women who consumed low-fat foods over an eight-year period. But for certain types of breast cancer, Wallace noted, there was an approximately 10 percent risk reduction associat- ed with the diet. Linda Snetselaar, a UI epi- demiology professor, also helped with the study, which sampled approximately 1,000 local women; the Women’s Health Initiative, as a whole, used more than 5,000 locals in the study. Another facet of the initiative’s longitudinal work analyzed the effect of calcium and Vitamin D supplements in preventing col- orectal cancer — findings to be published in The New England Journal of Medicine today. Wallace said he was “a little bit” disappointed by the results. “It’s not as conclusive as it should have been,” he said. The inconclusive findings, he said, stemmed from several fac- tors. Women in the low-fat group were unable to reduce their dietary intake to the desired levels, he said — a hefty task in a country presided over by golden arches touting French fries and hamburgers. And women in the control group, who did not receive any educa- tional intervention about healthy living, seemed to follow healthier diets than expected. Additionally, more long-term results will not be evident for several more years, Wallace said. But upon their release, these will “very likely” be reported. The take-home message, the doctor said Wednesday, was not to overanalyze the results. “The study does not show you can eat high-fat diets, and it doesn’t matter,” he said. Instead, it hints that cutting fat can help, particularly in avoiding breast cancer. But, to some UI students, while new health studies come and go, responsible nutrition is an everyday pursuit. UI nursing students Erin Cohen and Ade- laide Gerling, recently studying and enjoying a bite of sushi at the IMU, eagerly described their diets. Cohen avoids high-sugar foods and partially hydrogenat- ed fats, she said, and she tries to eat whole-grain foods whenever possible. “If you completely cut out fat- tening food, you’ll end up binge- ing,” she said, unwrapping a miniature candy bar. “It’s moderation, more than anything else.” Cohen, who helps with dia- betes research at UI Hospitals and Clinics, said she sees the negative effects of obesity first- hand. She emphasized the need for more research. “There need to be more stud- ies,” she said. E-mail DI reporter Margaret Poe at: margaret-poe@uiowa.edu DIETS CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1A THE FACTS The research: A large-scale dietary study conducted as part of the Women’s Health Initiative. The participants: 48,835 post-menopausal women ages 50-79. The design: Researchers from 40 U.S. clinics participated, including two researchers from UI Hospitals and Clinics. The results: Women on a low-fat diet did not have a lower risk of developing colorectal cancer, heart disease, or breast cancer. Source: Journal of the American Medical Association Keg registration comes back Nonprofits seek students Study doesn’t show low-fat help STATE States jockey for education flexibility ‘If you completely cut out fattening food, you’ll end up bingeing. It’s moderation, more than anything else.’ — Erin Cohen, UI nursing student today’s events 8A - The Daily Iowan - Iowa City, Iowa - Thursday, February 16, 2006 to submit events e-mail daily-iowan@uiowa.edu, please put date of event in the subject and follow the format in the paper Last night I was so drunk and alone that I … • Drunk-dialed every girl I had in my cell-phone. None of them would talk to me. I then got on Facebook and resorted to poking. • Recorded conversations I heard on the street with a tape recorder. Then I played it back and pre- tended that I was a part of the conversation. • Tried bumping into peo- ple, hoping that their arms would roughly embrace me, crudely simulating the sensation of a hug. • Cut out the picture of the girl that’s on the cover of Campus Access and taped it to a volleyball. We had a lovely conversation, but she said she wants to “just be friends.” Bitch. • Listened to Death Cab for Cutie feeling sorry for myself, set up a livejournal account (weeping-goril- la123), and bought a shoulder bag with a lot of patches on it. • Tried making up words to describe my situation. I came up with “patheticali- ty.” I think the meaning is self-evident. If not, here’s an example: The patheti- cality of my situation is indescribable. • Popped a bunch of hallu- cinogens, hoping that peo- ple in pictures would start talking to me. • Practiced the moonwalk so I could use it to impress someone. I was doing pret- ty well until I slipped in my own vomit. • Slept with a pillow clutched to my chest, and pretended that it was another human being. Jordan Jones is tired of being drunk and alone. Show him some companiship by e-mailing him at jordan-jones@uiowa.edu the ledge”— Adam Habib of the Human SciencesResearch Council in South Africa. “ ACROSS 1 With 70-Across, source of the quip at 21-, 39- and 58-Across 6 Travels erratically 11 They’re missed by airballs 15 Nancy’s wealthy pal in the comics 16 Actress Lindley of “Three’s Company” 17 Condo, e.g. 18 Identity hider 19 Brown-coated ermine 20 Little: Prefix 21 Start of a quip 24 Cramp site 25 Mini-albums, for short 26 Banks on a runway 27 Ed.’s request 28 Popular ice cream 30 Tony-winning Hagen 32 Say “aloha,” say 34 A pair of rattlers 38 Tiny channels 39 Quip, part 2 41 Lewis Carroll creature 43 Part of a rare birth 44 Thrusts out a lip or two 45 Where a drive might start 46 Criteria: Abbr. 50 Syr. neighbor 51 Country whose flag says “God is great” 55 N.C.’s capital 57 Abbr. after many a general’s name 58 End of the quip 62 Padre’s hermanas 63 He played Krupa in “The Gene Krupa Story” 64 Management counterpart 65 Art Deco alias 66 Rear-___ 67 With a full head of steam 68 U.P.S. drivers have them 69 Tosspots 70 See 1-Across DOWN 1 Revered answerer 2 Did an aria 3 Like sheets right out of a dryer 4 “How sad!” 5 Actress Perez 6 What a pace horse is noted for 7 It has strings attached 8 “___ get it!” 9 The doctor in “Daktari” 10 Debaucher 11 Jamaican spirits 12 Per se 13 One of the archangels 14 Ordinal numbers in Los Angeles, e.g. 22 Sudden growth 23 “No argument here” 29 On the ball 31 Service expert? 33 Ugly scenes 35 Warmly welcomes 36 In ___ of anger 37 Higher-ups 39 Achievement honoree 40 Collect slowly 41 Camel, notably 42 Start of a warning sign for restaurant customers 47 Like some elders 48 Without, with “of” 49 Laurence who wrote “A Sentimental Journey” 52 Winter coats 53 Kind of group, in chemistry 54 Speaker’s finale 56 1980’s-90’s Emmy-winning drama 59 Takes advantage of 60 Uncool sort 61 Suspense novelist ___ Hoag Puzzle by Victor Fleming For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE H E L I X A T O N L O O T O R A T E R E I N I O T A S A R A S O T A L E I P Z I G E T A L M I S C T R E S S I S I S O N C E C A L C U T T A L E H A V R E E L Y S E R O M D I E D L E I D O G T R O T S I G E R N S P O I U P O N E B O G O T A L E N I N G R A D T O L D O M A R S I G H T S A L A A N T I T A L E O F T W O C I T I E S A G A R T A R S D E C A L B O D E D R Y S A D E L E 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 The New York Times Syndication Sales Corporation 609 Greenwich Street, New York, N.Y. 10014 For Information Call: 1-800-972-3550 For Release Thursday, February 16, 2006 Edited by Will Shortz No. 0105 • Center for New Music, David Gompper, director, 4 p.m., Clapp Recital Hall • South Asian Studies Lecture Series “The Mahabharata and Assisted Reproductive Technology,” Swasti Bhattacharyya, Buena Vista College, 4 p.m., 302 Schaeffer Hall • Afro-American Cultural Center Black History Month Events, “Sex Bowl: How Well Do You Know Your Mate?,” 6:30 p.m., Afro- American Cultural Center • Blues for a Cause: The Guru’s Game, 7 p.m., Englert Theatre, 221 E. Washington • Death of a Salesman, 7 p.m., Riverside The- ater, 213 N. Gilbert • “Live from Prairie Lights,” Karla Kelsey and Susan Maxwell, fiction and poetry, 7 p.m., Prairie Lights Books, 15 S. Dubuque, and WSUI • Proseminar in Cinema and Culture Spring 2006, Human Rights Film, First Blood, 7 p.m., 101 Becker Communication Stud- ies Building • The Black Watch and the Band of the Welsh Guards, 7:30 p.m., Hancher Auditorium • Afro-American Cultural Center Black History Month Events, Old School Jam, 8 p.m.-midnight, Afro-American Cultural Center • Love’s Labour’s Lost 8 p.m., Theatre Build- ing Mabie Theatre • North American Saxophone Alliance, UI Saxophone Ensemble Kenneth Tse, direc- tor, with Jean-Yves Fourmeau and Debra Richtmeyer, saxophones, 8 p.m., Clapp • The Humanities Division, Sean Lewis, 8 p.m., Theatre Building Theatre B • Campus Activities Board Event, comedi- an Jamie Lissow, 9 p.m., 56 IMU • Chicago Afrobeat Project and New Beat Society, 9 p.m., Yacht Club, 13 S. Linn • Fundamental Elements, with the Red Smear, 9 p.m., Mill, 120 E. Burlington When politicians are uncertain about their future, they act in the interests of their citizens. That is what democracy is about, enshrining uncertainty. JORDAN JONES Think you could write a better Ledge? Prove it. Submit to daily- iowan@uiowa.edu. If your Ledge is something special, we’ll contact you to set up a photo. This column reflects the opinion of the author and not the DI Editorial Board, the Publisher, Student Publications Inc., or the University of Iowa. The 4th Floor by Troy Hollatz horoscopes Thursday, February 16, 2006— by Eugenia Last For complete TV listings and program guides, check out Arts and Entertainment at www.dailyiowan.com. UITV schedule Campus channel 4, cable channel 17 PATV Public Access Television cable channel 18 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Do what you can to help an older relative or friend. Make the effort to travel to resolve a problem. Taking action will be the way to vic- tory. Think big, but don’t go overboard. Baby steps will bring the best results. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don’t take everything you hear at face value. Sift through the information received, and decide for yourself what is fact and what is fiction. A romantic encounter may leave you feeling confused. Don’t expect too much. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can make some changes around home that will suit your needs better. A change of scenery will do you good. Finding out more about something that interests you will lead to a decision regarding a future business prospect. CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don’t expect anyone you have to deal with to see things your way. Make a few changes to your home, or look for a safe investment for your money. Much can be learned at a seminar on managing your money. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do your best to keep things honest, especially with joint finances. Money can be made, but you have to be upfront about your plans. Someone may try to take advantage of your generosity. VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Start looking at your options, and prepare to keep up with what’s going on around you. Living in the past or holding on to something that no longer has any value will be a waste of time. LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take time out of your busy schedule to have some fun. Be creative with fashion, style, or a hobby that interests you. You will be able to persuade others to assist you in achieving something that requires a little help. SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): By keeping a secret, you can surprise someone about whom you care deeply. Although you may cause some suspicion and upset by doing so, it will be worth it. A chance to follow through with one of your creative dreams is a must. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Deal with matters that aren’t so close to home. Take a breather from personal problems, and give yourself some space and time to think matters through. Visit with someone you trust to give you good advice. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don’t worry too much about the people who don’t see or do things the same way you do. Focus on those who back and support your ideas and plans. Change may be required to move forward. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Do whatever you can to complete a deal or formu- late a contract. Money can be made if you are willing to go the extra mile. Aggressive action will not be the route to take. Rather, knowing what you want and how to go about getting it will lead to success. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Finish up any little details that have been left undone. Put an end to the past so you can start fresh. A new deal can be made if you are willing to abide by the rules and set the record straight. 3 p.m. “Talk of Iowa Live from the Java House,” Winston Churchill and the Bowmans 4 Workers’ Movements and Impe- rialism, The Changing World of the Twentieth Century 5:30 Can We Share the World? Hope for the Christian-Muslim Dialogue 6:40 Ueye No. 9 7 “Talk of Iowa Live from the Java House,” Winston Churchill and the Bowmans 8 The War on Terror, Civil Liber- ties vs. National Security 10 Student Video Productions, Incompetent Sports Show 10:30 DITV News, The Daily Iowan Daily News Update 11 “Talk of Iowa Live from the Java House,” Winston Churchill and the Bowmans 7 a.m. Democracy Now 11 Democracy Now Noon Water, Ice & Snow 1:10 p.m. Snow Blessing 1:30 On Main St. 2 Glory 2 Glory 2:30 Give Me An Answer 3 Perspectives 4 The Unity Center 5 Tabernacle Baptist Church 6 Seed of Faith 7 Grace Community Church 8 Revival in Oxford 9 Tonight with Bradman Live 10 Radio 11 The Sports Stop: Early Edition 11:30 The Generic Sports Show 12:30 a.m. Modes Episode 2Feb. 16 — Rachel Erb, Victoria Grant, Natalie Owens, 19, Stephenie Panther, 22, Julie Brasefeld, 20 GET IN THE DI • Are you a student who pays for her or his tuition? We’d like to meet you, fol- low you to work, and run a photo-story on your life. We’re looking for people with an unusual/degrading/laborious jobs to photograph for this project. Please contact photographer Nick Loomis at nicholas-loomis@uiowa.edu or the photo desk at: (319)335.5852 • Like to eat? We’re looking for people who have a favorite place to eat on or near campus. We’re looking for those obsessed with a particular restaurant that serves you up right two or more times a week. If you think you’re one of those peo- ple, please e-mail daily-iowan.edu or call the news desk at: (319)335.6063 ON THE WEB WWW.DAILYIOWAN.COM DAILYIOWANSPORTS.COM /FOOTBALLDITV • Pharmacy abuse: A growing problem • UI medical students promote personal expres- sion • Men’s basketball high- lights vs. Michigan State VIDEO • Wrestling vs. Illinois • Battle of the Bands • Iowa Fan Fest 2006 • Dance Marathon 24-hour coverage • Highlights of visiting dance troupe Shen Wei Dance Arts’ visit MP3s • Scottie Long Trio • Wheatus • The Great Lakes The Profits AUDIO • Punk artist Gary Panter’s full interview DI POLL Last week’s answer: How concerned are you about bird flu affecting our area chicken/turkey farms? 1,209 total votes Very (12%) Somewhat (34%) Not at all (48%) I don’t even know what bird flu is (6%) This week’s question: Should the UI raise its admission standards? EXTRAS • New every Wednesday: DVD capsules COMING SOON • Sports podcasts PHOTOS • Photo slide show: 2006 Outback Bowl VIDEOS • 2006 Outback Bowl coverage STORIES • Scouting report COMING SOON • Football news podcasts Look for this button throughout the DI for more web coverage DAILY BREAK happy birthday to… E-mail first and last names, ages, and dates of birth to daily-iowan@uiowa.edu at least two days in advance. BY TED MCCARTAN THE DAILY IOWAN Take one look at future first-ballot Hall of Fame pitcher Greg Maddux on an off day, and it’s clear why pitchers have a reputation of hav- ing it easy. The guy looks like he should be doing taxes when April comes rather than tak- ing the mound for another season, and most of the time in the dugout, he’s chewing his finger- nails or talking about his golf game. Well, that’s not how off-days work for the Iowa hurlers, which is exactly how pitching coach Nick Zumsande likes it. And he’s pegged this year’s staff as the best he’s had in the three years he’s been in town. “That’s a tough one,” starting shortstop Jason White said, when asked who has it tougher — position players or pitchers. “I’d like to say position guys have it tougher, but thoseReavis honored again Iowa men’s gymnast Michael Reavis is the Big Ten Gymnast of the Week for the third time this sea- son. He shares this round’s honor with Jake Lee of Minnesota. This is third time in four weeks that Reavis has been named the conference’s finest. “I’m surprised,” he said. “I didn’t think I would get it this week. This past weekend wasn’t quite as marquee.” The senior won the all-around against No. 2 Oklahoma and Nebraska last weekend. He said he does not think the title will aid the Hawks’ effort against Saturday’s opponent Illinois. “Our team, as a whole, is intimi- dating enough,” said Reavis. “I’m going for three in a row now.” — by Dan Parr SPORTSSCOREBOARDNBAMiami 110, Orlando 100Indiana 88, Milwaukee 77Philadelphia 103, San Antonio 100, OTNew York 98, Toronto 96Cleveland 113, Boston 109, 2OT New Jersey 95, Charlotte 94 Memphis 84, Sacramento 78 Minnesota 102, Seattle 92 New Orleans 102, Portland 86 Phoenix 116, Denver 101 Dallas 103, Washington 97 DI SPORTS DESK THE DI SPORTS DEPARTMENT WELCOMES QUESTIONS, COMMENTS, & SUGGESTIONS. PHONE: (319) 335-5848 FAX: (319) 335-6184 WOMEN’S HOOPS: HAWKS HEAD TO EAST LANSING, 2B PENN STATE COLLEGE HOOPS MEN’S GYMNASTICS Matt Sylvester and Alando Tucker THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2006 WWW.DAILYIOWAN.COM Wisconsin 78, No. 12 Ohio St. 73 MADISON, Wis. (AP) — Wisconsin coach Bo Ryan pointed out Alando Tucker’s mistakes. It didn’t take very long. “Four turnovers. Two assists,” Ryan said. “I told him he’d have the game ball if he had taken care of the ball a little bit better.” Tucker did everything else right. He had 27 points and 16 rebounds, seven offensive, to lead Wisconsin to its third-straight victory over No. 12 Ohio State on Wednesday night. “He sold programs and popcorn, too,” Ryan said. “It had to be fun to watch if you could just sit back and watch the game, because his energy was everywhere.” Rumors swirl around Davis STATE COLLEGE, Pa. — Home or away, Indiana coach Mike Davis just can’t escape rumors about his job security. After Penn State beat the Hoosiers, 71-68, on Wednesday night, the embattled Davis sidestepped ques- tions about a report that he would step down after this season. “I’m not answering anything about my job,” he said in a low, raspy voice after a reporter asked him about a story posted Wednesday night on SI.com, citing sources in the athletics department that he would resign after the season. He said he didn’t know about that story until he was asked about it on his post-game radio show. “If I say something, I say the wrong thing,” Davis said, whose team lost for the sixth time in seven games. “I just need to keep my mouth shut and focus on my basketball team.” The Nittany Lions (12-11, 4-8 Big Ten) took over late despite some missed free throws. Ben Luber hit a jumper, then Geary Claxton nailed a 3 with 3:46 left to give Penn State a 70-65 lead. Lewis Monroe hit one of two free throws to narrow the lead to 71-68, then Luber missed two free throws with 2 seconds left. But Marshall Strickland’s desperation 3 came after the buzzer and hit off the rim, and the Penn State fans stormed the court. But the attention was squarely on Davis in his first game back on the bench after missing a game with flu-like symptoms amid rampant speculation about his job security. Indiana (13-9, 5-6) fell out of the Top 25 this week for the first time this season. Reavis senior WOMEN’S TRACK AND FIELD BY DAN PARR THE DAILY IOWAN Speed is hard to find in Iowa. The women’s track and field roster boasts a grand total of only two women sprinters who hail from the Hawkeye State. Instead of choking on dust in the events that require some giddy-up, women’s cross-country and assistant track coach Layne Anderson does his best Carmen San Diego impression and peels away the concealers of tal- ent, also known as oceans. “I’ve been everywhere, man,” he sang, invoking the words of the Johnny Cash. That statement is not much of an exaggeration. The world map lights up when Anderson’s stops are highlighted. The third-year Iowa coach returned from his most recent recruiting trip on Feb. 4, after tak- ing in the Commonwealth Games meet in Sydney, Australia. “I saw some athletes whom we certainly would love to have here,” he said. BY RYAN LONG THE DAILY IOWAN Coming off of Duane Banks Field last season after a game, Iowa baseball coach Jack Dahm bumped into an impor- tant Hawkeye supporter — Bob Bowlsby. The athletics director told Dahm it was the first time he had left the field in a long time when there was a traffic jam in the parking lot. With the 2005 squad return- ing to the Big Ten Tournament for the first time since 2002 — and only the second time in the last 15 years — the Hawkeyes will look to continue to fill up the parking spots this year. “Last year,we probably snuck up on some people,” Dahm said at Tuesday’s media day. “I don’t think we’re going to be able to sneak up on anybody in the Big Ten conference. It’s going to be a tough year. I think the Big Ten is going to be wide-open.” Iowa finished last season’s campaign with a 28-27 record and a 19-13 mark in the league. The 19 wins were the second- most victories the program has ever earned in the Big Ten. The Hawkeyes also won five conference series for the first time since the 1990 sea- son, when Iowa captured a school-record six and finished first in the Big Ten. “Last year, we were out to prove something, to kind of put Iowa baseball on the map,” said sophomore Dusty Napoleon. “This year, team’s are going to be gunning for us, a little bit more. We gotta get after them every week.” Dahm believes that this year’s pitching staff has the potential to be the backbone of the team. However, the start- ing rotation may have taken a step back when No. 2 starter junior Casey O’Rourke was diagnosed with testicular can- cer during the off-season. O’ Rourke underwent suc- cessful surgery on Monday, and Dahm said he is recover- ing well. With O’ Rourke sit- ting out for the season, Iowa will turn other arms. As of now, the potential rotation will include right- handers Luke O’Loughlin, Austin Seward, David Conroy, Chase Stephens, and lefty Jeff Maitland. Anderson women’s cross-country and assistant track coach Hawkeye track coach scours globe SEE ANDERSON, PAGE 6B Hawkeyes make a very strong pitch SEE PITCHING, PAGE 6B Laura Schmitt/The Daily Iowan Members of the Iowa baseball team practice during media day on Wednesday afternoon. The Hawkeyes will open the season at the Austin Peay Tournament on Feb. 24; their first home game will be March 24. Hawk baseball wants more traffic jams SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 6B ‘There’s going to be some more dominating staffs, maybe, in the Big Ten and in the Midwest, but, from top to bottom, we’ve got a very solid pitching staff.’ — Jack Dahm, Iowa coach During media day Wednesday, Iowa baseball coach Jack Dahm said pitching would be the Hawkeyes’ strength this season Laura Schmitt/The Daily Iowan Hawkeye pitchers Jordan Auerbach (13) and Sean Radke work out during the baseball media day on Wednesday. PITCHING STRENGTH BY MICHAEL SCHMIDT THE DAILY IOWAN Anthony Bowman and Paul Chaney Jr. are 160-pound packages of rocket fuel, capa- ble of speed bursts that blow away opponents on the grid- iron and 400- meter oval. Iowa’s next two-sport ath- letes are primed to follow the school’s rich history of com- peting in both football and track, starting next season. Bowman and Chaney signed with the Hawkeyes on Feb. 1, national sign- ing day, with intentions to play football and run track. Bowman, a native of Detroit, is a two-time Michigan state champion in the 200 meters, while St. Louis’ Chaney holds the second- fastest 400 time in the nation. The two-sport commitment is not uncommon for Iowa. Former Hawkeye football players who laced up the track shoes include wide receivers Tim Dwight, Quinn Early, Tim Dodge, and Bashir Yamini and fullback Jeremy Allen, a thrower. Dwight was a three- time Big Ten champion sprint- er. Early captured the Big Ten long jump title in 1986, and Allen was the conference shot- put champion in 2001. “When we’ve had those types of guys. That’s usually when we’ve done our best in track and field,” Iowa coach Larry Wieczorek said. “Person- ally, I’ve never had a kid out for track and not go back and play good football.” The precedent for success is there, Iowa football coach Kirk Ferentz said at the Hawkeyes’ national signing day press conference. “[Track] happens to be a sport that lends itself well to playing football,” he said. Bowman was thinking along the same lines when he signed with Iowa. “It was something I wanted to do throughout high school,” he said. “Track is one of the cornerstones to being a good football player, so I wanted to keep it up.” Wieczorek believes Bowman and Chaney can have the same effect on the Hawkeyes as Dwight, who helped Iowa to second-place Big Ten finish in 1999. “Paul is among the elite sprinters in the nation,” Wiec- zorek said. “He would be a major-college track recruit. Anthony is an outstanding sprinter, as well. “We have a real terrific group of young sprinters. With those two guys coming off the football team onto the track, we can make a mark in the Big Ten and on the national level.” Wieczorek, who was an assistant at the time, first worked with the team when Ferentz was offensive-line coach under Hayden Fry in the 1980s. Wieczorek and Fer- entz cooperated with lineman Chris Gambol, who was a Big Ten shot-put champion in 1987 and went on to play in the NFL for five years. The relationship grew from there, and both programs still discuss the possibility of two- sport status during the recruiting process. “Often times, with football and track prospects, the foot- ball coaches are recruiting an athlete who is two-sport, and they will contact us to add our support to the efforts,” Wiec- zorek said. “That was the case with Paul, particularly. Those kids are good track athletes, and they want the opportunity to do both.” Football and track mesh well, Wieczorek said, and that gives hope for Bowman and Chaney’s collegiate careers in both sports. “Track and field is a univer- sal sport. You have sprinting, jumping, and throwing,” he said. “We’ve had all of the above with the football play- ers. The two sports go hand-in-hand.” E-mail DI reporter MMiicchhaaeell SScchhmmiiddtt at: michael-j-schmidt@uiowa.edu SPORTS 2B - The Daily Iowan - Iowa City, Iowa - Thursday, February 16, 2006 SPORTS ’N’ STUFF WWOOMMEENN’’SS BBIIGG TTEENN BBAASSKKEETTBBAALLLL Conference All Games W L PCT W L PCT Ohio State 11 1 .917 21 2 .913 Purdue 11 1 .917 20 3 .870 Minnesota 9 3 .750 17 6 .739 Michigan State 9 4 .692 19 7 .731 Indiana 8 5 .615 14 10 .583 Iowa 7 5 .583 14 9 .609 Penn State 5 8 .385 11 13 .458 Illinois 4 9 .308 12 12 .500 Wisconsin 3 10 .231 9 16 .360 Northwestern 2 11 .154 6 18 .250 Michigan 0 12 .000 6 18 .250 Today’s Games Iowa at Michigan State, 6 p.m. Michigan at Purdue, 6 p.m. Illinois at Northwestern, 7 p.m. Ohio State at Minnesota, 7 p.m. Penn State at Wisconsin, 7 p.m. Sunday’s Games Michigan at Iowa, 1:05 p.m. Indiana at Purdue, 12 p.m. Minnesota at Wisconsin, 1:30 p.m. Monday’s Game Michigan State at Ohio State, 6:30 p.m. MMEENN’’SS BBIIGG TTEENN BBAASSKKEETTBBAALLLL Conference All Games W L PCT W L PCT Iowa 9 3 .750 20 6 .769 Wisconsin 8 4 .667 18 7 .720 Ohio St. 7 4 .636 18 4 .818 Illinois 7 4 .636 21 4 .840 Michigan 7 5 .583 17 6 .739 Michigan St. 6 5 .545 18 7 .720 Indiana 5 6 .455 13 9 .591 Northwestern 4 7 .364 12 11 .522 Minnesota 3 8 .273 12 10 .545 Penn St. 4 8 .333 12 11 .545 Purdue 3 9 .250 9 14 .391 Tuesday’s Game Iowa 66, Michigan State 54 Wednesday’s Games Michigan 72, Minnesota 50 Wisconsin 78, Ohio State 73 Penn State 71, Indiana 68 Illinois 63, Northwestern 47 Saturday’s Games Iowa at Minnesota, 3:30 p.m. Northwestern at Ohio State, 11 a.m. Penn State at Purdue, 1:30 p.m. Michigan at Michigan State, 3 p.m. Sunday’s Game Indiana at Illinois, 2:30 p.m. TOP 25 COLLEGE BASKETBALL #7 George Washington 69, Massachusetts 66 #8 Tennessee 105, Auburn 89 #9 Pittsburgh 85, Providence 77 #10 Florida 73, Vanderbilt 68 Wisconsin 78, #12 Ohio State 73 #14 Illinois 63, Northwestern 47 Colorado 84, #19 Oklahoma 75 #21 North Carolina State 86, Florida State 64 #23 North Carolina 82, Georgia Tech 75 #24 Bucknell 69, Lafayette 49 #25 LSU 72, Mississippi State 59 WOMEN #8 Connecticut 84, Providence 58 #9 Oklahoma 61, Texas 54 #12 Baylor 84, #21 Texas A&M 59 #16 DePaul 64, Georgetown 58 Wyoming 59, #20 New Mexico 52 #25 Utah 80, Colorado State 56 NNAATTIIOONNAALL BBAASSKKEETTBBAALLLL LLEEAAGGUUEE By The Associated Press All Times CDT EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic W L Pct GB New Jersey 28 23 .549 — Philadelphia 25 26 .490 3 Boston 20 32 .385 81⁄2 Toronto 20 33 .377 9 New York 15 37 .288 131⁄2 Southeast W L Pct GB Miami 33 20 .623 — Washington 26 25 .510 6 Orlando 19 32 .373 13 Atlanta 16 34 .320 151⁄2 Charlotte 14 40 .259 191⁄2 Central W L Pct GB Detroit 42 9 .824 — Cleveland 31 21 .596 111⁄2 Indiana 26 23 .531 15 Milwaukee 27 25 .519 151⁄2 Chicago 22 29 .431 20 WESTERN CONFERENCE Southwest W L Pct GB Dallas 41 11 .788 — San Antonio 40 12 .769 1 Memphis 29 23 .558 12 New Orleans 29 23 .558 12 Houston 22 30 .423 19 Northwest W L Pct GB Denver 28 26 .519 — Utah 25 27 .481 2 Minnesota 23 29 .442 4 Seattle 20 33 .377 71⁄2 Portland 18 33 .353 81⁄2 Pacific W L Pct GB Phoenix 34 17 .667 — L.A. Clippers 30 21 .588 4 L.A. Lakers 26 26 .500 81⁄2 Golden State 24 28 .462 101⁄2 Sacramento 24 29 .453 11 Wednesday’s Games Miami 110, Orlando 100 Indiana 88, Milwaukee 77 Philadelphia 103, San Antonio 100, OT New York 98, Toronto 96 Cleveland 113, Boston 109, 2OT New Jersey 95, Charlotte 94 Memphis 84, Sacramento 78 Minnesota 102, Seattle 92 New Orleans 102, Portland 86 Phoenix 116, Denver 101 Dallas 103, Washington 97 Atlanta 114, L.A. Lakers 110 Golden State 88, L.A. Clippers 81 Today’s Games Philadelphia at Chicago, 6:30 p.m. Houston at Phoenix, 9 p.m. Friday’s Games No games scheduled Saturday’s Games No games scheduled Sunday’s Games All-Star Game at Houston, 7 p.m. TTHHUURRSSDDAAYY’’SS OOLLYYMMPPIICC SSCCHHEEDDUULLEE Biathlon Women’s 7.5km Sprint, 5 a.m. Cross-Country Skiing Women’s 10km (classical), 3 a.m. Curling Men Britain vs. Germany, 7 a.m. Switzerland vs. New Zealand, 7 a.m. United States vs. Sweden, 7 a.m. Norway vs. Canada, 7 a.m. Women Canada vs. Switzerland, 2 a.m. Japan vs. Denmark, 2 a.m. Russia vs. Britain, 2 a.m. Sweden vs. Italy, 2 a.m. Sweden vs. United States, 12 p.m. Denmark vs. Switzerland, 12 p.m. Canada vs. Norway, 12 p.m. Figure Skating Men’s Free Program, 12 p.m. Hockey Men Finland vs. Italy, 5 a.m. Switzerland vs. Czech Republic, 6 a.m. Sweden vs. Russia, 9 a.m. Slovakia vs. Latvia, 10 a.m. Canada vs. Germany, 1 p.m. United States vs. Kazakhstan, 2 p.m. Nordic Combined K120 Team Event jump, 2 a.m. Team Event 4X5km race, 8 a.m. HAWKEYE SPORTS Today • Big Ten women swimming & diving championships at Columbus, 10 a.m. • Women’s basketball at Michigan State, 6:02 p.m. Friday • Men and Women’s track Iowa Invitational at Rec Building • Big Ten women swimming & diving championships at Columbus, 10 a.m. • Softball against Illinois State in Tempe, 3:30 p.m. • Women’s tennis at Minnesota, 6 p.m. • Wrestling hosts Boise State at Carver-Hawkeye Arena, 7 p.m. • Softball against Arizona State in Tempe, 8:30 p.m. Saturday • Big Ten women swimming & diving championships at Columbus, 10 a.m. • Women’s tennis at Dartmouth, noon • Softball against Illinois State in Tempe, 2:00 p.m. • Men’s basketball at Minnesota, 3:35 p.m. • Softball against Arizona State in Tempe, 4:30 p.m. • Men’s gymnastics hosts Michigan at Field House, 7 p.m. • Women’s gymnastics hosts Illinois at Field House, 7 p.m. Bowman Wieczorek track coach Ferentz football coach Football, track a good mix BY RYAN LONG THE DAILY IOWAN When Iowa defeated then-No. 9 Michigan State, 75-64, a month ago, much of the reason for the Hawkeyes’ success came down to executing fundamentals. The Hawkeyes took care of the basketball, committing only 14 turnovers against a Spartan squad that uses a constant press. Even though the Hawks were out-rebounded by eight, they still managed to generate 25 points off of second-shot opportunities. The presence down low was attributed to center Megan Skouby, who posted a career- high 27 points. “Maybe the first time it might have been a shock to them how well she played,” Iowa coach Lisa Bluder said Tuesday. “She definitely had a great game against them. I think they’ll be definitely keyed on her this time and our inside game a lit- tle bit more so than last time.” When Iowa faces off with No. 14 Michigan State today at 6:02 p.m. in East Lansing, it will tan- gle with one of the finer defen- sive teams in the conference. The Spartans have surren- dered 61.2 points per game this season and have posted a plus- six rebounding margin, making them the best in the Big Ten in that category. Michigan State also features an impressive scoring trio, with senior guard Lindsay Bowen averaging 12.9 points, senior forward Liz Shimek averaging 17.7 points and 8.7 rebounds, and junior guard Victoria Lucas-Perry has been shooting 45 percent from 3 point range, during league play. The Hawkeyes are coming off of an 88-77 loss at No. 6 Ohio State on Sunday. Even though the defeat dropped Iowa to sixth in the conference standings, Bluder views the situation posi- tively. “The only thing I think we can gain from that is that our team knows that we competed against what’s arguably the best team in the conference,” she said. “Ohio State had to play its best offensive game of the year in order to beat us. So, I think that those are the things that we have to take into the Michigan State game.” Another significant positive that can be taken from the loss to the Buckeyes was the improved play of senior guard Crystal Smith, who had been struggling offensively — with just four points against Purdue and six points against North- western. However, she managed to rediscover her stroke in Columbus, with 21 points. “Big sigh of relief for all of us to see that Crystal is — what I hope is — back on track,” Blud- er said. “I told her after the last game, ‘Every great shooter goes through a little slump. Don’t worry about it. The only thing that you can do is get in the gym, shoot, shoot, shoot, and get that confidence back.’ “To me, it’s entirely a confi- dence issue.” Smith, who scored 18 points the last time out against the Spartans and averages 17.7 points per contest, said her offensive woes came down to how she was reacting mentally. “I think I lost all of my confi- dence in the past few games,” she said. “I just let it come to me last game.” E-mail DI reporter RRyyaann LLoonngg at: ryan-long-2@uiowa.edu Hawks head to East Lansing Sarah Mercier/The Daily Iowan Hawkeye Nicole VanderPol catches a pass during the game on Feb. 9 against Northwestern in Carver-Hawkeye Arena. The Hawkeyes won, 76-61. SPORTS The Daily Iowan - Iowa City, Iowa - Thursday, February 16, 2006 - 3B BY IRA PODELL ASSOCIATED PRESS TURIN, Italy — John Gra- hame watched the movie Mira- cle almost 100 times during the NHL lockout. The way the U.S. hockey team played against Latvia in the Olympic opener, Grahame and his teammates might need another miracle for history to repeat itself. Jordan Leopold scored early in the third period, and the American team with a roster full of NHL players only man- aged a 3-3 tie against the underdog Latvia. When the final horn sound- ed, the Latvian players raised their arms in triumph, while the Americans slowly gathered around goalie Grahame. “We were not expected to win or even get the tie,” said former NHL goalie Arturs Irbe, who made 39 saves — 18 in the third period — for Latvia. “We were big-time underdogs in this game, in everybody’s eyes except our own people. “You can say that this proba- bly means more to us than to the American team.” Latvia, with only two cur- rent NHL players, rallied from an early two-goal deficit and proved U.S. coach Peter Lavio- lette had every reason to be worried about this opening matchup in Olympic Group B. Latvia had the luxury of playing mostly as a team in recent weeks, while the U.S. squad was scattered around North America. Only two American players were in Italy by Monday, and the team had just one practice before hitting the ice Wednesday night. On the flip side, their oppo- nents — who finished ninth in Salt Lake City four years ago — had practiced together since Feb. 5. “A lot of guys just got off the flight yesterday. There’s no excuses, but that’s the reality,” Grahame said. The United States will play today against Kazakhstan. Latvia will face Slovakia. Latvia’s biggest offensive star was Anaheim defenseman Sandis Ozolinsh, who had two assists in his first game since November. He was sidelined by a knee injury and then was in the league’s substance-abuse program, until being reinstat- ed Tuesday. “I was pretty excited,” he said. “Just the usual feelings.” The Latvians had a chance to win the game in the third when Mark Parrish took a four-minute high-sticking penalty, but their power play was cut short by a penalty. Then they just had to hang on, as the United States charged. “The game was going full speed, and they turned up all cylinders,” Irbe said. “It was very hard for us to survive a game like that, but that’s why there was good news that there were only three periods.” Grahame, who made 22 saves, got the start despite not being invited to the Americans’ orientation camp in September. All seemed right for the United States early, when Brian Gionta scored a power- play goal 9:44 in, and Craig Conroy doubled the lead and made Irbe look bad just 54 seconds later. Atvars Tribuncovs cut Latvia’s deficit to 2-1 with a power-play goal in the first period, and Latvia took over in the second. Poor defensive cov- erage by the United States yielded numerous odd-man rushes. Grahame was forced to dive on his stomach in the crease to grab the puck and stop the pressure with just under six minutes left in the second peri- od. Brian Rolston was sent off for tripping, and Latvia — in the Olympics for just the third time — took advantage. Dressed in road whites, the Latvians moved the puck from side to side high in the United States zone. Tribuncovs finally slid a shot past heavy traffic and under Grahame to tie it. Freestyle skiing SAUZE d’OULX, Italy (AP) — Jeremy Bloom’s skiing adventure came to a less-than-satisfying close. The two-sport star finished sixth in Olympic moguls. Dale Begg-Smith of Australia won the event, and Mikko Ronkainen took the silver. American Toby Dawson finished third. American Travis Mayer, the silver medalist in 2002, finished seventh and announced his retirement after- ward, while teammate Travis Cabral came in ninth. Bloom has bigger things on his radar now — starting with a trip to the NFL scouting combine next week. His two years as a football star at the University of Colorado ended after the NCAA ruled he couldn’t accept endorsement money for ski- ing. Determined not to be pushed around, Bloom dropped out of school and focused on skiing, saying foot- ball was his true love but refusing to give up his other passion. To him, the move was as much a matter of prin- ciple as practicality. He also wanted to better his ninth-place finish in the 2002 Games. He won an unprecedented six- straight races and the World Cup title last season, positioning himself as the man to beat in 2006. Alpine skiing SAN SICARIO, Italy (AP) — Michaela Dorfmeister won the women’s downhill for the Olympic gold medal that had eluded her for so long, with a dominant run through windy, gloomy conditions in the Italian Alps. Martina Schild of Switzerland won the silver and Anja Paerson of Sweden the bronze. American Lindsey Kildow, skiing 48 hours after a horrible crash in a train- ing run put her in a hospital overnight, tied for eighth, with Austrian Alexandra Meissnitzer, 1.29 seconds behind the winner. Julia Mancuso was the top U.S. finisher, in seventh. Despite Austria’s world dominance in ski racing, Dorfmeister, who will retire at the end of this season, was the first from that country to win the Olympic women’s downhill since Annemarie Moser-Pröll won at the 1980 Lake Placid Games. Dorfmeister has had world champi- onships, dozens of World Cup victories, and has won the overall World Cup title. But she had no Olympic gold before her triumphant run on the bumpy, steep, and long Fraitieve Olympique course. Luge CESANA, Italy (AP) — Mark Grimmette and Brian Martin crashed, ending their run for the gold in an unexpected tangle of arms, legs, and tears. Seeking the one medal that has eluded them, Grimmette and Martin wrecked on their first run, ending perhaps the final chase for the most decorated doubles luge team in U.S. history. Austrian brothers Andreas and Wolfgang Linger won the gold in dou- bles, finishing the two-run event in 1 minute, 34.497 seconds. Germany’s Andre Florschuetz and Torsten Wustlich won the silver, and Italy got its second luge medal of the Turin Games, as Gerhard Plankensteiner and Oswald Haselrieder took bronze. Grimmette and Martin’s crash was- n’t the most serious of the day. The Ukrainian team of Oleg Zherebetskyy and Roman Yazvinskyy — the final duo of the first heat — smashed into an upper wall near the bottom and flipped, sending the pair airborne. Men’s curling PINEROLO, Italy (AP) — Italy shocked the United States and rocked the Olympic curling venue, earning a victory in the men’s opening round. Italy is not a traditional curling power and is only in the tournament as host country. But the Italians took an early 2-0 lead and broke a 4-4 tie with a point in the eighth end. They stole a point in the ninth despite having to give up the big advantage that comes with being last to throw. American skip, or captain, Pete Fenson needed to knock one of his own rocks into the target zone and follow it in with another to even have a chance at forcing overtime. But, as a hush came over the crowd, he could only put one rock into the target, and the United States conceded, without Italy having to throw its last rock. The United States dropped to 2-2 with Italy, Norway, and Finland. Canada, Britain, and Sweden are tied for first, at 3-1, and Germany and Switzerland are 1-2. New Zealand (0- 4) remained winless. Women’s curling PINEROLO, Italy (AP) — The U.S. women earned their first Olympic victory — they’ll need several more to dig out of the hole they fell into when they lost their first three games at the curling venue outside of Turin. The Americans will probably need to win four — if not all — of the next five games to have a chance at the medal round. They are in last place in the round-robin; Norway is first, at 3-1, with Canada, Britain, Sweden, and Switzerland tied at 2-1. Four teams make the medal round. Denmark fell to 1-2, tied with Italy, Japan, and Russia. OLYMPICS Nation G S B Tot Norway 1 5 5 11 Russia 4 3 2 9 United States 5 2 1 8 Germany 4 2 2 8 China 1 2 3 6 Austria 2 2 1 5 Canada 1 1 2 4 Italy 1 0 3 4 Finland 0 2 2 4 Sweden 2 0 1 3 Nation G S B Tot Netherlands 1 2 0 3 South Korea 1 1 1 3 France 1 0 1 2 Switzerland 0 1 1 2 Australia 1 0 0 1 Estonia 1 0 0 1 Bulgaria 0 1 0 1 Croatia 0 1 0 1 Czech Republic 0 1 0 1 Latvia 0 0 1 1 Latvia shocks U.S. Winter Olympic Medals Table Through Wednesday 26 total medal events Gene J. Puskar/Associated Press U.S. goalie John Grahame (47) covers up a loose puck as defe- seman Jordan Loepold (4) holds off Latvia’s Aleksandrs Semjonovs during a Winter Olympics hockey match Wednesday in Turin, Italy. The game ended in a 3-3 tie. 4B - The Daily Iowan - Iowa City, Iowa - Thursday, February 16, 2006 SUMMER EMPLOYMENT EFFICIENCIES available now. Oakcrest St. $398. No pets. (319)466-7491. DOWNTOWN APTS. Available for Fall Whiteway (210 S.Clinton St.) 1 bedrooms, $630-760. PETS OKAY. Vogel (corner of Linn & Iowa) 1 bedrooms, fully furnished. PETS OKAY. Blackstone (118-1/2 S.Dub.) 1 bedrooms $650/ water included. PETS OKAY. Van Patten (9 S.Linn) 1 bedrooms $575. Woodlawn Historic District (East end of Iowa Ave.) Efficiency and one bedrooms $470-680 H/W paid. Free parking. PETS OKAY. Call Bobby (319)430-8386 CLEAN, quiet, one bedroom. H/W paid. Laundry. No smok- ing/ pets. Coralville. Available April. (319)337-9376. CATS welcome; wooden floors; sunny windows; laundry; park- ing; immediate possession; $535 utilities included: (319)621-8317. AVAILABLE now. One bed- room- $485; efficiency- $460. Close to UIHC and law school. H/W paid. 736 Michael St. (319)325-7616 AVAILABLE now. Sublease one bedrooms starting at $398. Downtown locations. No pets. www.jandjapts.com (319)466-7491. AVAILABLE August 1, 2006. 517 S.LInn. One bedroom, one bathroom. Quiet, laundry. Close to downtown. Rae-Matt Proper- ties. (319)351-1219. raematt.com ARE YOU LOOKING FOR THE HIGHEST QUALITY AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS? IF YOU ARE AND ARE SEEKING A QUIET ENVIRONMENT ALSO, PLEASE VISIT www.parsonsproperties.net FOR MORE INFORMATION. AN efficiency, one person dar- ling apartment. Nice yard, on busline, close to DeliMart, off 1st Ave., Coralville. No pets, no smoking. February rent negotia- ble. (319)331-5071, (319)351-0690. AD#605. One bedroom near downtown. Some utilities paid. Parking, cats okay. Call M-F, 9-5. (319)351-2178. EFFICIENCY / ONE BEDROOM SUMMER & FALL LEASING. One bedroom units from $495. 2-3 bedrooms, 1-2 bathrooms from $695. Eastside and West- side units available. Westside units close to UIHC. Call (319)631-2659. QUALITY, location, service,value. www.parsonsproperties.net ONE and two bedrooms. H/W paid. Small dogs ok. Eastside Iowa City. Flexible leases. (319)351-4452. ONE and two bedroom apart- ments. Close to graduate school. H/W paid. (319)358-7139 jandmhome.com GOOSETOWN RENTALS accepting applications for selec- tion of well-maintained homes and apartments in Iowa City. 1,2, and 3 bedroom homes and units available now and August 1. Please call (319)331-2242 or e-mail: goosetownrentals@gmail.com FALL leasing. Brand new and newer. 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 bedroom apartments. Downtown. Next to U of I. Call (319)354-8331. www.aptsdowntown.com DOWNTOWN: PLAZA TOWERS luxury apart- ments available January 2006. $1,500 to $2,920/ month. Phone Marc (319)430-3010. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. We are now signing fall leases. Efficien- cies, one and two bedroom apartments on Iowa Ave., Jeffer- son, Washington, Dubuque and Clinton St., (a big plus) family owned and managed. (319)338-3810. BEST locations, LOWEST prices. 2-3 bedrooms. $695-795. Call (319)331-8995. ALWAYS ONLINE www.dailyiowan.com AD#715. Room or one bedroom near downtown, some utilities paid, some parking. No pets. Possible shared kitchen or bath- room. Call M-F, 9-5. (319)351-2178. APARTMENT FOR RENT AD#624. One or two bedroom near downtown. W/D facilities, A/C, parking, H/W paid. No pets. Call M-F, 9-5, (319)351-2178. AD#426. Three or four bedroom near downtown. Two bathrooms, C/A, dishwasher, W/D facilities, some parking, deck, no pets. Call M-F, 9-5, 319)351-2178. AD#412. Room, 1 or 2 bedroom near downtown, some utilities paid, possible shared kitchen and bathroom. Call M-F, 9-5, (319)351-2178. AD#411. 1 or 2 bedroom in Coralville. W/D, facilities, dish- washer, C/A, parking, no pets. Call M-F, 9-5. (319)351-2178. AD#401. 1, 2, or three bedroom in Coralville. W/D facilities, dish- washer, A/C, H/W paid. Spa- cious. No pets. Call M-F, (319)351-2178. AD#22. Kitchenette, efficiency, 1, 2, or 3 bedroom, near cam- pus, W/D facilities, cats okay, some utilities paid, possible shared bath. Call M-F, 9-5, (319)351-2178. AD#209. Efficiency, one, and two bedrooms in Coralville. Quiet area, parking, some with deck, water paid. W/D facilities. Possible flexible lease. Call M-F, 9-5pm, (319)351-2178. AD#14.1 or 3 bedroom down- town. W/D facilities, dishwasher, C/A, secure building. No pets. Call M-F, 9-5, (319)351-2178. AD#128. Kitchenette, efficiency, one or two bedroom on campus, H/W paid, possible shared bath. Call M-F, 9-5. (319)351-2178. 1, 2, 3, 4 bedrooms and efficien- cies available. Free parking. Great student locations. Pool, laundry. Call ASI at (319)621-6750. APARTMENT FOR RENT APARTMENT FOR RENT TWO bedroom Coralville apart- ment, $650/ month, water in- cluded. C/A, dishwasher, good condition. Free parking. Pool. Available for June 1. Date nego- tiable. Call (319)331-3267. THREE bedroom apartment. Corner of church and Dubuque. Parking available. Nice. Call (563)570-7291. ONE bedroom apartment avail- able June 1 or end of May. 612 S.VanBuren. Call Jen (319)621-4681. ONE bedroom. Close to UIHC and law building. Available June 1 or May negotiable. Andrea, (319)400-3649. SUMMER SUBLET FALL OPTION TWO bedroom. Block from Sheraton and downtown. 321 Linn. $880/ month. (630)632-8520. ONE bedroom in four bedroom apartment. New. Secure. Quiet. Close. $375/ month covers eve- rything. May rent free. Call (319)330-7661. SUMMER SUBLET ONE bedroom apartment, walk to downtown, C/A, laundry and parking available. $550 plus electric. (708)925-8911. SUMMER SUBLET SHARE two bedroom town- house. W/D, A/C. Free parking, available immediately. $350 plus 1/2 utilities. 6-month lease op- tion. Call Adam (630)878-1676. OWN bedroom in three bedroom house. All utilities, cable, W/D, A/C included. Spacious, semi-furnished. Free parking. No smoking/ dogs. Quiet neighbor- hood. Serious student or pro- fessionals only. $390/ month. (641)823-4177, (319)330-9393. ONE or two rooms available im- mediately in five bedroom house. 620 S.Capital St., house close to downtown, A/C, parking, $340 plus utilities. Call Adam (319)400-2741. ONE bedroom in two bedroom, two bathroom apartment. $300 includes utilities. Lincoln Ave., Iowa City. Dishwasher, A/C. (319)335-6828. ONE bedroom in a two bedroom condo. Westside. W/D, dish- washer, A/C, secure building, garage. $400 plus 1/2 utilities. (319)321-9580. ONE bedroom in a two bedroom apartment. Graduate environ- ment, non-smoking, reserved parking space. Close to health sciences campus. $365 plus 1/2 utilities. Available July 28. (319)330-4276. NEWER house. W/D, dishwasher, wireless. $350/ month, no utilities. (319)358-0061. HOUSEMATE wanted: Close, comfortable, clean with new kitchen appliances and W/D. $240/ month plus utilities. Call Lisa (502)551-4663, or Kevan (319)936-1977. BEN NEEDS a roommate, 961 Miller Ave. (319)337-2685, (319)930-7323. AVAILABLE now! One bedroom in four bedroom/ two bathroom. Share with three girls. S.Linn; nice, secure, close to campus. $300 plus utilities/ negotiable. Call anytime (563)343-6838. AUGUST 1. Too early? Recon- sider! $258, nice apartment, lovely neighborhood, low utilities, garage, laundry, cable, DVD player. (319)337-4388. INTERNATIONAL/ GRADUATE PREFERRED Private, nicely furnished bed- room and bathroom in duplex. Safe, quiet neighborhood. $500/ month includes utilities, garage, Internet, cable hook-up. No smoking/ pets. Deposit $300. Month-to-month lease. (319)338-3514 ROOMMATE WANTED AVAILABLE immediately. One bedroom available in four bed- room house near campus. $450/ month plus utilities. (319)351-4733. ROOMMATE WANTED MALE OWN bedroom in four bedroom house. Close to UIHC. Off-street parking, Wireless Internet, W/D, bus. Available immediately. $325. (319)341-8085. TWO separate spacious rooms with private bathrooms available in brand new three bedroom townhouse. 2-1/2 miles from campus. Furnished living areas, fireplace, C/A, DSL wireless Internet, W/D in unit. One ga- rage space available. On bus- line. Short or long term. (641)919-5023. ROOMMATE WANTED FEMALE UNIT 3 at 424 S.Lucas. Shared kitchen/ bathroom. Coin laundry on-site. Rent $275/ month, utili- ties included. Available now through July. (319)354-7262. ROOM for rent. Utilities paid, $200/ month. Must be comfort- able with horses. (319)331-0400. QUIET, close, furnished- $325- $595; with own bathroom- $405. Utilities paid. (319)338-4070 400-4070- no message on cell. FURNISHED. Across dental school. Utilities paid. $320. Available now. (319)331-9545. ROOM FOR RENT PRIVATE room on busline with shared bathroom and kitchen. Free parking, on-site laundry, utilities, cable. Less than one mile from campus. $250/ month. Call (319)337-8665. NEED TO PLACE AN AD? COME TO ROOM E131 ADLER JOURNALISM BUILDING FOR DETAILS MEN’S dorm style room. Close-in. Laundry. Common area, kitchen, bathroom. $235/ month. (319)351-2715. LARGE quiet room. S.Lucas. parking, W/D, no smoking, no pets. Available now. $275- 305 plus electric. After 7pm, (319)354-2221. IMMEDIATE SUBLEASE THOUGH JULY! Female- one bedroom in five bedroom, two bathroom apartment. Above Takanami, 221 Iowa Ave., $300. Includes utilities. Call (319)330-2364 or (319)358-7696 for showing. FURNISHED, across from med/ dental complex. Share kitchen- ette/ bath. Parking. $325. all utilities paid. (319)337-5156. FURNISHED student room. $270- $300, includes utilities and housekeeping. One block from main campus. (319)337-2573, after 5p.m. COLLEGE HILL HOUSE. Single occupancy rooms in grand set- ting. $450/ month, most utilities included. Spring and fall leasing. (319)430-1461. CLEAN, quiet, inexpensive, parking. Near hospital. Private refrigerator, microwave, WiFi. Flexible lease. Available now. (319)338-3935. CATS welcome; high ceilings; historical house; good facilities; laundry; parking; $355 utilities in- cluded: (319)621-8317. AVAILABLE now men’s dorm style room. $225 plus electric. Five blocks from campus. Call (319)354-2233 for showings. AVAILABLE NOW FOR FEMALES. Close to campus. Near Co-op grocery. Iowa Ave., and also Washington St. Share kitchen and two bathrooms. All utilities furnished. W/D. $295. (319)338-3810. AVAILABLE immediately. Women’s dorm style room. $285 utilities included. Three blocks from campus, no parking. Call (319)354-2233 for showings. ROOM FOR RENT ROOMS available for August. $254/ month. All utilities, organic food. $157, includes Internet, laundry, parking. www.river-city-housing.org (319)337-5260, 337-8445. CO-OP HOUSING VOLVO & MERCEDES REPAIR Absolute Import Service Vintage & Diesel specialist. (319)887-1083, EXPERT low cost solutions to your car problems. Visa and Mastercard accepted. McNiel Auto Repair. (319)351-7130. AUTO SERVICE WANTED! Used or wrecked cars, trucks or vans. Quick esti- mates and removal. (319)679–2789. CASH for Cars, Trucks Berg Auto 4165 Alyssa Ct. 319-338-6688 BUYING USED CARS We will tow. (319)688-2747 AUTO DOMESTIC PARKING space for rent at 804 N.Dubuque. Call (319)621-6750. PARKING available in a secure parking garage one block west of the U of I Music Building. Can be rented by the month for $60/ month. Call 631-1236 for more details. GARAGE / PARKING DO YOU WANT TO SHARE DRIVING EXPENSES?? Place an ad in The Daily Iowan and find a ride/ rider. Call (319)335-5784 Mon.-Thurs. 8-5p.m. Fri.8-4p.m. CATCH A RIDE SPRING BREAK/ MEXICO. From $549. Be a rep and earn a trip. (800)366-4786, (952)893-9679. www.mazexp.com SPRING BREAK 2006 with Student Travel Services to Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas and Florida. Don’t get left behind! Book now, limited space avail- able. Call for group discounts. Info/ reservations, 1-800-648-4849. SPRING BREAK FUN Moy Yat Ving Tsun KUNG FU (319)339-1251 HEALTH & FITNESS EXTRA income? GetPaidForSleeping.com FINANCIAL SERVICES THE DAILY IOWAN CLASSIFIEDS MAKE CENTS!! MISC. FOR SALE WANT A SOFA? Desk? Table? Rocker? Visit HOUSEWORKS. We've got a store full of clean used furniture plus dishes, drapes, lamps and other house- hold items. All at reasonable prices. Now accepting new con- signments. HOUSEWORKS 111 Stevens Dr. 338-4357 HOUSEHOLD ITEMS USED COMPUTERS J&L Computer Company 628 S.Dubuque Street (319)354-8277 COMPUTER MOVING?? SELL UNWANTED FURNITURE IN THE DAILY IOWAN CLASSIFIEDS. MOVING U STORE ALL Self storage units from 5x10 -Security fences -Concrete buildings -Steel doors -Iowa City 337-3506 or 331-0575 CAROUSEL MINI-STORAGE Located 809 Hwy 1 Iowa City Sizes available: 5x10, 10x20, 10x30. 354-2550, 354-1639 STORAGE JULIA’S FARM KENNELS Schnauzer puppies. Boarding, grooming. 319-351-3562. PETS 2 GEORGE STRAIT TICKETS Section 210A, Row 7. Best offer. (319)631-5592, (319)354-5918. TICKETS ANTIQUE and VINTAGE COSTUME JEWELRY. Antique Mall of Iowa City 507 S.Gilbert 354-1822 ANTIQUES EDITING/ TYPING Available to edit and/ or type work of any kind. Have M.A. Reasonable rates. E-mail inquiries to: sempercarpevitam@netzero.net TUTORING PLAY SPORTS! HAVE FUN! SAVE MONEY! Maine camp needs fun loving counselors to teach ALL land, adventure, and water sports. Great summer! Call (888)844-8080, apply: www.campcedar.com SUMMER EMPLOYMENT MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD WITH SPE- CIAL NEEDS. Staff needed for fully inclusive overnight camp for individuals with special needs. Call (847)412-5773 or e-mail heather@keshet.org CAMP COUNSELORS NEEDED to assist SPECIAL NEEDS children in integrated and non-integrated settings in Northbrook and Skokie. Some overnight positions also avail- able. Call (847)412-5773 or e-mail: heather@keshet.org SUMMER EMPLOYMENT NOW HIRING Server/ Bartender Lunch & dinner shifts Apply in person between 2-4pm. University Athletic Club 1360 Melrose Ave. RESTAURANT LPNs Tired of Clinical Settings? Look- ing for something different? We offer a great work environment! We have openings for a Nurse Supervisor and LPN’s. Psychiat- ric experience preferred. Chatham Oaks is a residential care facility for people with men- tal illness. We offer great bene- fits and competitive wages. Apply in person at: Chatham Oaks, Inc. 4515 Melrose Ave. Iowa City, IA 52246 (319)887-2701. MEDICAL The Lincoln Before & After School Program is looking for a reliable and responsible individ- ual who loves working with chil- dren. Must be motivated, ener- getic, and friendly. Child care and day camp experience pre- ferred. Must be able to work Thursday PM- 1:40-5:30, Friday PM 2:40-5:30 and Tuesday and Thursday AM 7:25-8:30am. Come join our team for tons of fun with school age children! 319430-4196. EDUCATION WANTED: Responsible, punc- tual person for women’s fitness center. Duties include some cleaning, especially vacuuming and dusting. Watchful, helpful, friendly, on time people only. Work is in exchange for your membership. Call Cindy, Cindy K’s Fitness, (319)936-1411. SEASONAL HORTICULTURE MAINTENANCE Seeking an individual to assist with general landscape mainte- nance throughout the city. Some tasks may include weeding, wa- tering, pruning, planting, and mulching etc. Experience pre- ferred. Must be 18 or over and have a valid drivers license and good driving record. Applications and job description are available at: Coralville Recreation Center 1506 8th Street Coralville, Iowa. 52241 or www.coralville.org E.O.E. RESIDENTIAL AIDE FT/PT position working with indi- viduals with mental illness. Var- ied shifts and every other week- end. We offer competitive wages and excellent benefits. Apply in person: Chatham Oaks 4515 Melrose Ave. Iowa City, IA 52246 (319)887-2701. PART-TIME morning farm help need. Experience required. (319)331-4627. PAINTER/ laborer, full-time or part-time. Wage based on expe- rience. Drivers license and trans- portation a must. Call John (319)331-2401. NEW CHOICES, Inc. (NCI), a provider of human services in Eastern Iowa, has the following full-time employment opportunity in the Iowa City area: TREATMENT SUPERVISOR This position involves develop- ing, implementing and monitor- ing program services for children and adults with mental retarda- tion, mental illness or brain in- jury, as well as scheduling and supervising the staff providing these service. NCI offers: -Sign-on bonuses -Flexible scheduling -Generous benefit package -A positive team atmosphere Please send resume and cover letter to: New Choices, Inc. 319 VanBuren Wapello, IA 52653 Attn. Traci McCleary chazelwood@ newchoicesinc.com MOVIE EXTRAS, ACTORS, MODELS! Make $75- $250/ day, all ages and faces wanted! No experience required. Full-time, part-time! (800)851-6131. MODEL/ ACTORS Males and females ages 0-75+, all sizes needed for TV, Maga- zines, etc. Part-time flexible hours. We pay $50 +/- per hour. No experience required. Some jobs start March. Bring snapshot to: Clarion Hotel, I-380, exit 17, Cedar Rapids, Tuesday, Febru- ary 28 anytime 6:30p.m.- 9:30p.m. Under 18, bring parent. MASSIVE INCOME POTENTIAL. Be your own boss, put your PC to work for you. Training and support provided. Call 1-800-556-5618, 24 hour message. KNOW Visual Basic 6.0? Want to earn some money? Call 321-7857. GET paid to drive a brand new Earn $800- $3200 a month to drive. www.drivefreekey.com DIETARY AIDE Permanent part-time; 12-15 hours week plus fill-in hours. Evenings and weekends. Will train. Must be at least 16. Must be friendly, outgoing, caring, as- sertive. No phone calls. Fill out application in person. Greenwood Manor 605 Greenwood Dr. Iowa City HELP WANTED CASHIER Applications now being accepted for part-time cashier. Experience preferred. Competitive pay, close to campus. Apply in person at: Nagle Lumber 1201 S.Gillbert (319)338-1118 BARTENDING! $300/ day po- tential. No experience neces- sary. Training provided. 800-965-6520 ext. 111. ATTENTION UI STUDENTS! GREAT RESUME- BUILDER GREAT JOB! Be a key to the University's future! Join THE UNIVERSITY OF IOWA FOUNDATION TELEFUND up to $9.40 per hour!!! CALL NOW! 335-3442, ext.417 Leave name, phone number, and best time to call. www.uifoundation.org/jobs HELP WANTED ADOPT. Happily married couple seeks to share our hearts and home with (white) new born. Will provide unconditional love, compassion, and financial security. Expenses paid. Call Roslyn and Rob, (866)496-7600. ADOPTION PSYCH/ PEDIATRIC RN offers intermittent and individualized care to the emotionally chal- lenged child/ teen. E-mail: patmor319@mchsi.com INVESTORS wanted. Commercial/ apartment real es- tate. 15%+ return tax free. (319)310-0351. MESSAGE BOARD MASSAGE room available, Iowa City, for therapist with estab- lished clientele. (563)340-5659. THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE WEDDING VIDEOGRAPHY Call Photon Studios for professional wedding videography. (319)594-5777. www.photon-studios.com WEDDING PHOTOS to DVD and VIDEO Video Albums Photon Studios (319)594-5777 www.photon-studios.com ADULT XXX MOVIES Huge seletion of DVD & VHS! THAT’S RENTERTAINMENT 202 N.Linn (2 blocks from Burge and 1 from Van Allen Hall) PERSONAL MOVING?? SELL UNWANTED FURNITURE IN THE DAILY IOWAN CLASSIFIEDS. The Daily Iowan - Iowa City, Iowa - Thursday, February 16, 2006 - 5B REAL ESTATE PROPERTIES FOR SALE BY OWNER FOR SALE BY OWNER CONDO FOR SALE CONDO FOR SALE APARTMENT FOR RENT SUMMER SUBLET WANTED to buy apartment properties. Any size/ price. (319)310-3995. REAL ESTATE PROPERTIES NEW factory built home. 3 bedroom, 2 bathroom. Put on your basement .$39,980. Horkheimer Homes Mon.- Sat. 8a.m.-8p.m. Sunday 10a.m.-6p.m. 1-800-632-5985 Hazleton, Iowa. MOBILE HOME FOR SALE INVESTMENT properties for sale. Two duplexes and two houses. Rented through 7/31/2007. Tenant paid utilities. (319)631-1972 after 5pm. FSBO. Three bedroom, two bathroom, new kitchen, wood floors. $150,000, website: http://bigbluehouse.us (319)887-1107. 314 COLLEGE COURT. Three bedrooms, 1-3/4 bath- rooms, hardwood floors. $149,870. (319)358-1686. HOUSE FOR SALE HOME for sale. FSBO, Eastside Iowa City. http://radcliffe3004. home.mchsi.com GREAT LOCATION IN CORALVILLE. 2182 sq.ft. Four bedroom and 3-1/2 bathroom. Built 2000. Fenced-in large backyard. $171,900. By owner. (319)466-9033. FOR SALE BY OWNER SADDLEBROOK COMMUNITY. Two bedroom, one bathroom, garage, W/D, fireplace, $88K. (319)430-7857. NORTH LIBERTY condo, 2005 construction, two bedroom, two bath. Must sell, will sacrifice, $101,500. (319)626-6989. EAST IC condo, two bedroom, two bathroom. Third floor, sunny, quiet. Screen porch, fireplace, wood floors, all appliances, W/D. Move-in ready. Quick posses- sion. $122,900. w w w . f s b o l o c a l . c o m (319)331-1887. CONDO FOR SALE ALWAYS ONLINE www.dailyiowan.com WALK to class! Four bedroom, two bathroom, new stove, dish- washer, A/C, nice. $1500. Free internet and cable. Available August 1. 614N.Gilbert.(319)337-0967. VALUE PRICED! Four bedroom apartment- $700/ month. Four bedroom house- $900/ month. Now through July. (319)936-2184. TWO bedroom. Iowa City. Quiet neighborhood. Large yard. $750. Cats negotiable. (720)493-8795. TWO bedroom- 620 S.Gilbert, close to downtown. Hardwood floors/ washer/ dryer/ off-street parking/ cats negotiable. $725. RCPM (319)887-2187. TWO bedroom- 415-1/2 Bowery, close to downtown, W/D, cats negotiable. $675. RCPM (319)887-2187. TWO bedroom dupllex. Available now. Close-in, pets negotiable. (319)338-7047. THREE and four bedroom houses. Waking distance to UIHC, dental and law. Dish- washer, W/D, A/C, available August 1. hawkeyehouses.com (563)940-8012. SUBLET. Eastside, three bed- room, two bathroom, garage, walkout basement, W/D. Avail- able March- June. $950/ month. (319)330-7353. SIX bedroom (large) allows eight. Close-in, busline. Free parking. Dishwasher, W/D, A/C, hardwood. Two bathrooms, two kitchens. Available August 1. (319)341-9385. RENT to own. IC. 4/2. $119,000. Credit for rent. Buy with-in 6-12 months.(319)325-3699 or (319)621-5045. QUIET two bedroom farmhouse, $750 plus utilities. No smoking/ pets. (319)624-2686. NORTH/ EAST 2-4 bedroom, 2 bathroom single family homes. $650 to $1100 plus utiltlies. (319)325-3699 or (319)621-5045. NICE HOUSE Three bedroom. Muscatine Ave. Wood floors. Off-street parking. Laundry. C/A. Fireplace. Bus- lines. Cat deposit. $1200/ month plus utilities. (319)338-3071. NEWLY REMODELED, three bedroom, one bathroom house, W/D, dishwasher, two car ga- rage, off-street parking, A/C, new kitchen and bathroom, hard- wood floor. $1050. (563)940-8012 hawkeyehouses.com CLOSE-IN houses for fall 2006. uofihouserentals.com HOUSE FOR RENT NEED lots of space? Six people, fireplace. With all amenities? Plus extras? Excellent price. (319)621-6213. MEDICAL/ dental students, this four bedroom, two bath home across from dental college. Available now. Mod Pod Inc., (319)351-0102. LARGE seven bedroom house, two bathrooms, parking, W/D, microwave. 115 S.Governor. Rent $2750/ month plus utilities. Available August 1, 2006. www.buxhouses.com (319)354-7262. HISTORIC former sorority house. 10 bedrooms, 3 kitchens, 4 bathrooms, parking, W/D. 942 Iowa Ave. Ideal for large group. Rent $3500/ month plus utilities. www.buxhouses.com. Available 8/1/2006. (319)354-7262. GREAT LOCATIONS AVAILABLE AUGUST Downtown, near U of I 410 E.Market, 4 bdrm- $1699 510 Bowery, 5 bdrm- $1815 916 E.Burlington, 5 bdrm- $1775 335 S.Johnson, 8 bdrm- $2575. Call (319)354-8331 GREAT family home. 10-minute walk to UIHC, next to Horn Ele- mentary. Three bedroom with hardwood floors, 1-1/2 bath- rooms plus LL shower, new kitchen appliances and W/D, large LL family room, two car garage, fenced yard. Lease/ pets negotiable. $1400. (319)338-6768. FOUR bedroom. Eastside. 1030 E. Jefferson. Dishwasher, W/D, two bathrooms, four park- ing spaces. Available August. $1600/ month plus utilities. www.buxhouses.com (319)354-7262. FOUR bedroom. Close-in, dish- washer, W/D, A/C, two bath- room, parking, available August 1. hawkeyehouses.com (563)940-8012. FOUR bedroom. 730 E.Jeffer- son. New kitchen and bath- rooms. Four car parking. Avail- able now, 6-month lease ending July 31, 2006. Also renting for August 1. Tenants pay utilities. No pets. (847)486-1955. FOUR bedroom- 805 Bowery, close to downtown. Hardwood floors/ air/ washer/ dryer/ pets negotiable. RCPM (319)887-2187. FOUR bedroom- 415 Bowery. Two baths/ washer/ dryer/ off-street parking/ pets negotia- ble. $1600. RCPM (319)887-2187. FOUR bedroom- 409 Bowery. Two baths/ washer/ dryer/ two car garage/ pets negotiable. $1700. RCPM (319)887-2187. FOUR bedroom, 1-1/2 bath- room. August 1. No pets. $1250/ month. (319)936-3201. FOUR bedroom house, two bathrooms, W/D, dishwasher, two living rooms, C/A, off-street parking, close to dental, law, hospitals. $1350. (563)940-8012. hawkeyehouses.com FOUR bedroom house for rent. Available August 1. W/D and A/C. (319)631-5152 FOUR bedroom house for rent with sun porch. Walking distance to campus. Call (712)683-5545. FORMER fraternity house. 8 bedrooms, 2 kitchens, 8 parking spaces, garage, W/D, 946 Iowa Ave. Ideal for large group. Rent $2600/ month plus utilities. www.buxhouses.com. Available 8/1/2006. (319)354-7262. FIVE bedroom. Close-in, bus- line, free parking, W/D, C/A, two bathrooms, dishwasher. Avail- able August 1. (319)341-9385. FIVE bedroom, large rooms, close to campus, W/D, parking. $1800, low utilities. No pets. (319)936-7100. FALL. Across dental school. Four bedroom, all amenities. No pets. $1300. (319)331-9545. HOUSE FOR RENT FALL/ CLOSE-IN. 1-10 bedroom houses. Free parking. www.REMhouses.com (319)337-5022. FALL LEASING 3 and 4 bedroom houses; $1200 & $1300. 1, 2, 4 bedroom apart- ments from $375- $750. (319)545-2075. CLOSE. Westside. Three bed- room. $650. W/D, dishwasher, shed. (319)339-8069. CLOSE-IN, VERY NICE. 3 & 4 bedroom houses. No smoking or pets. August. Cindy, (319)354-3208, (319)331-0835. CLOSE-IN, newer, very spa- cious, energy efficient. 4-5 bed- room, parking, bus, fireplace, W/D, C/A, microwave, appli- ances. No pets. Reasonable priced. Renting 8/1/06. (319)683-2324. CLOSE to downtown. 2-3 per- son house. Separate baths and cooking. Available immediately. $900. (319)351-9126. AVAILABLE August 1. Three bedroom, 1-1/2 bathroom, 2 car garage, fenced yard, pet? Four occupants maximum. $1475/ month. (319)248-0554. AUGUST 1. Four bedroom, two kitchens. $1300 plus utilities. (319)337-8504. AD#820. Three bedroom, one bathroom house. Westside. $995. On bus route. W/D hook-ups, off-street parking. (319)331-1120. AD#49. Four bedroom, two bath- room. Westside. W/D hook-ups. Dishwasher, C/A, on busline. (319)331-1120. AD#32. 1, 2, or 3 bedroom. Great locations, W/D hook-ups, nice yards, parking and some with garage, pets negotiable. Call M-F, 9-5. (319)351-2178. 4+ bedroom- 1112 N.Dodge. 1-1/2 baths/ washer/ dryer/ brick/ pets negotiable. $1200. RCPM (319)887-2187. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 bedrooms, multi bathrooms, free parking, W/D, C/A, dishwasher, busline, close-in. Leasing for fall 2006. (319)341-9385. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 bedroom houses. All downtown. Pets, parking. August 1. (319)354-2734. HOUSE FOR RENT Prairie Rose Bed & Breakfast www.prairieroseiowa.com One night or extended stay rates. Furnished. Close-in. (319)337-4363. GUEST HOUSING THREE bedroom, three bath- room. Vaulted ceilings. Excellent condition. Appliances included. Two car garage. Mormon Trek Village. (773)896-5902. THREE bedroom, Coralville. Available now. 1868 sq.ft. Dish- washer, C/A, W/D hook-ups. Two bathrooms, two stall ga- rage. Rent negotiable. (319)351-4452, (319)351-2415. BRAND NEW! Two bedroom condos available now! 2-story, two bathroom, dishwasher, W/D, fireplace, ga- rage. Large deck. Please call (319)351-4452 or (319)351-2415. AWESOME, new two bedroom. Fireplace, deck, W/D, garage in- cluded. No pets. $690-755. (319)338-2918. www.apartmentsbystevens.com AVAILABLE now, new two bed- room, spacious, fireplace, W/D, deck, garage, $599/ month. (319)338-2918. AD#2600. One bedroom on westside, C/A, W/D facilities, cats okay, deck, parking. Call M-F, 9-5. (319)351-2178. CONDO FOR RENT 55 Westside Dr. Very nice two bedroom with fireplace. Large two car garage, all appliances. $775/ month. (515)277-4345. CONDO FOR RENT TWO bedroom. $550 plus utili- ties, W/D, pets negotiable. Avail- able now through July 31. (319)631-1972. TWO bedroom, two bathroom, 2-levels. Clean, quiet, W/D hook-ups. Busline. Large yard. Off-street parking. No pets. $575. Available August 1. (319)330-4341. TWO bedroom, 1222 E.Burling- ton St. Garage opener, full base- ment, new hardwood floors, W/D, microwave, gas fireplace. Available August 1, 2006. Rent $860/ month plus utilities. www.buxhouses.com (319)354-7262. TWO bedroom, 1-1/2 bathroom, 2-story duplex. HUGE BED- ROOMS. Unfinished basement with W/D hookups. Dining room, off-street parking, central A/C, ceiling fans. Cats okay. $685/ month through July (negotiable). March rent FREE! Available mid-March. (319)339-8731 eve- nings. NICE three bedroom, two bath- room duplex. W/D included. $1000/ month. Available August 1. (319)338-4390. LARGE three bedroom. August 1. $975. A/C, W/D, deck. (319)936-4647. LARGE one bedroom. Quiet, no smoking, no pets. W/D, yard. $495 plus utilities. After 7pm, (319)354-2221. LARGE one bedroom, two may occupy, five blocks from cam- pus, W/D, available 8/1/06. (319)530-4693. AVAILABLE June 1. Three bed- room, 1-1/2 bathroom. Nicely restored. Wood floors, C/A, W/D, parking. $885/ month. No pets. (319)338-7058.. AVAILABLE NOW. Iowa City. Two bedroom, off-street parking. Shaded. 1/2 block from park. Well insulated. $535 plus utilities. Pets consid- ered. (319)331-8986, (319)665-2476. AD#957. 2 or 3 bedroom near busline. Parking, W/D or hook-ups. Pet negotiable. Call M-F, 9-5. (319)351-2178. AD#301. One bedroom near downtown, spacious, some park- ing, all utilities paid, no pets. Call M-F, 9-5. (319)351-2178. AD#228. Three bedroom down- town. Spacious, parking. No pets. Call M-F, 9-5. (319)351-2178. 2 BEDROOM, 809 2nd Ave., I.C. Available NOW! $575, no pets/ smoking. (319)683-3042. DUPLEX FOR RENT WALDEN ROAD DUPLEXES Three bedrooms, two bath- rooms, W/D, dishwasher, fire- place, Central air, garage, $1090, SouthGate. (319)339-9320 www.s-gate.com THREE bedroom- 711 Burling- ton, close to downtown. Hard- wood floors/ air/ laundry/ park- ing/ water paid/ no pets. $1200. RCPM (319)887-2187. THREE bedroom, three blocks from downtown, behind Lou Henri Restaurant. C/A, new carpet. Available now. (319)330-2503. THREE bedroom units in 2-story upscale townhouse apartments in downtown Iowa City. Fall 2006. (319)338-1203. THREE bedroom near campus. A/C, parking, carpet. $795. (319)936-6797. SUBLET, $900/ month. Less than 1-year-old. Three bedroom duplex. Two full bathrooms, two car garage. Vaulted ceilings, fire- place. (319)430-2722. NEWER four bedroom, two baths. Garage and parking. Walking distance to campus. August 1. (319)358-7139. www.jandmhome.com LARGE three bedroom apart- ment for Fall. Close-in on S.Johnson St. $930- $950. (319)351-7415. LARGE four bedroom, two bath- room apartment, hardwood floors. Off-street parking. A/C, skylight. No smoking, no pets. $1200. After 7:30p.m. (319)354-2221. LANTERN PARK TOWNHOUSES Great Coralville location. Three bedroom, 1-1/2 bathroom, W/D, C/A. $795. AVAILABLE NOW or August 1. SouthGate, (319)339-9320 s-gate.com FIRST MONTH FREE! Available Walden Ridge townhouses. Three and four bedrooms avail- able, two bathrooms. W/D, dish- washer, two parking spots, basic cable. $750. SouthGate (319)339-9320. s-gate.com. FOURbedroom- 805 Bowery, close to downtown. Hardwood floors/ air/ washer/ dryer/ pets negotiable. RCPM (319)887-2187. FOUR bedroom- 711 Burlington, close to downtown. Two baths/ air/ hardwood floors/ laundry/ parking/ water paid/ no pets. $1400. RCPM (319)887-2187. FOUR bedroom- 415 Bowery. Two baths/ washer/ dryer/ off-street parking/ pets negotia- ble. $1600. RCPM (319)887-2187. FOUR bedroom- 409 Bowery. Two baths/ washer/ dryer/ two car garage/ pets negotiable. $1700. RCPM (319)887-2187. FALL leasing. Brand new four and five bedroom apartments and townhouses. Near U of I campus and downtown. Under- ground parking, balconies, fire- place, two bathrooms. Call (319)351-8391. FALL LEASING. 650 S. Dodge, three bedrooms, $825/ month, H/W paid, A/C, dishwasher, off-street parking, laundry. (319)330-2100, (319)337-8544. 646 S.DODGE, $825, H/W paid, free parking. (319)321-3822. THREE / FOUR BEDROOM DAILY IOWAN CLASSIFIEDS 335-5784; 335-5785 e-mail: daily-iowan- classified@uiowa.edu CHOICE LOCATION. 517 S.Linn Street, August 1. Four bedroom, two bathroom, quiet, laundry, se- cure building. Rae-Matt Proper- ties, (319)351-1219 raematt.com CHEAP summer sublet or avail- able now. Three bedroom apart- ment. New hardwood floors, two bathrooms, low utilities, three parking stalls. College/ Lucas. Rent negotiable. (515)490-9587. AVAILABLE now. Four bed- room, two bathroom apartment. $800 plus utilities, two parking spaces included. Dishwasher, C/A, laundry on-site. (319)354-2233, for showings. AVAILABLE now. CLOSE TO UIHC and sports complex. One block from Dental Science Build- ing. Three bedrooms. A/C. $775/ month plus utilities. Parking. (319)351-8404. AVAILABLE AUGUST Great locations near DT and UI. -433 S.Johnson, $1141 H/W pd -520 S.Johnson, $1085 H/W pd -932 E.Washington $999 HW pd -318 Ridgeland, $1025 H/W pd Call (319)351-7676. AVAILABLE AUGUST Brand new and newer four and five bedroom luxury apartments. Call (319)351-7676. ARE YOU LOOKING FOR THE HIGHEST QUALITY AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS? IF YOU ARE AND ARE SEEKING A QUIET ENVIRONMENT ALSO, PLEASE VISIT www.parsonsproperties.net FOR MORE INFORMATION. 961 Miller Ave. Near bus stop. H/W paid, A/C. Laundry and parking on-site. Available imme- diately. (319)337-2685, (319)530-6355 or 430-2093. 4+ bedroom- 1112 N.Dodge. 1-1/2 baths/ washer/ dryer/ brick/ pets negotiable. $1200. RCPM (319)887-2187. THREE / FOUR BEDROOM WESTSIDE DRIVE CONDOS- Two bedroom, one bathroom, W/D, dishwasher, microwave, fireplace, central air, deck/ patio, two car garage, entry door system, $795. SouthGate, (319)339-9320 www.s-gate.com W/D, garage, water paid, $600 to $750. Available now, June 1, and August 1. (319)936-4647. TWO bedroom. A/C, on-site laundry, parking, dishwasher. Please call (319)338-8625 or 331-9726. TWO bedroom- 620 S.Gilbert, close to downtown. Hardwood floors/ washer/ dryer/ off-street parking/ cats negotiable. $725. RCPM (319)887-2187. TWO bedroom- 612 S.Dodge, close to downtown. H/W paid/ laundry/ no pets. $610. RCPM (319)887-2187. TWO bedroom- 521 Kirkwood, walk to downtown. Two baths/ water paid/ laundry/ no pets. $680. RCPM (319)887-2187. TWO bedroom- 415-1/2 Bowery, close to downtown, W/D, cats negotiable. $675. RCPM (319)887-2187. TWO bedroom, two bathroom in 2-story upscale townhouse apartments in downtown Iowa City. Fall 2006. (319)338-1203. TWO bedroom, downtown, above The Atlas. (319)337-7524. TWO bedroom, Coralville, avail- able now. 970 sq.ft. $595/ month, water paid. Balcony, C/A, free parking, laundry on-site, on busline. (319)339-7925. TWO bedroom, beautiful, newer, busline, parking, laundry, no pets, $608. (319)338-2918. www.apartmentsbystevens.com TWO bedroom, 2-1/2 bathroom townhouse with full basement, rec room, laundry hook-ups, available now. Near Finkbine. $682/ month. No pets. (319)466-7491. TWO bedroom, one block from dental school. $590/ month. Ten- ant pays utilities. Off-street park- ing included. No pets. Available now. (319)321-2239. TWO bedroom on Finkbine- $565/ month, or Aber $550/ month. H/W paid. Call (319)631-2461. TWO BEDROOM TWO bedroom in Coralville available early! Pets okay. On busline. $585/ month. Three lev- els, W/D hook-ups. Available as early as April 1st, option for next year. (319)621-9329. SUPER SPECIAL DEAL!!! 1006 Oakcret. Two bedroom, one bathroom. Close to law/ medical. Underground parking, deck, laundry on-site, A/C, H/W paid. Secured building. (319)338-4774. SUBLEASE/ renewal available. Clean two bedroom. Pets wel- come. $600/ month. Kelly (319)541-5808. SCOTSDALE APARTMENTS in Coralville has two bedroom sublets available immediately through June. $590 and $620 includes water. 1-1/2 bathrooms. On busline. 24- hour mainte- nance. Call (319)351-1777. RENT this two bedroom apart- ment at Emerald Court starting April 1st for only $500, includes water. A short walk to Hospital, dental and law school. Close, laundry, parking and 24-hour maintenance. Call (319)337-4323. NEWER, two bedroom, one bathroom. Quiet, close to UIHC. Parking, W/D. Sublets available. Rae-Matt Properties, (319)351-1219 raematt.com NEWER two bedroom, two bath- room apartment next to walking trail and rec center. Fireplace, garage, vaulted ceilings, deck, W/D, all appliances, C/A, secure entrance and much more! $710/ month through July. March rent is free! (319)665-9713. NEW two bedroom, one bath- room by Kinnick. Spacious, W/D, dishwasher, free parking, ground floor, patio. Available August 1, early possession a possibility. Lindsay (319)330-2947. LARGE two bedroom apartment. Clean, quiet building. 9th St. Coralville. Available now, June and August. $585. (319)351-7415. FEBRUARY 30-DAY SPECIAL. Two- 2 bedroom apartments in Coralville for rent now. 6 or 12-month lease. $500. (319)351-7415, (319)430-3033. GREAT LOCATION FALL LEASING Downtown, near U of I. Two bedroom, two bathroom. 521 N.Linn, $995 H/W & cable paid. 517 E.Fairchild, $912 H/W & ca- ble paid. 522 E.Burlington, $999 H/W paid. 48 West Court, $1035 H/W paid. 806 E.College, $868 H/W and cable paid. 830 E.Jefferson, $819 H/W & ca- ble paid. Call (319)354-8331 GREAT Coralville location, near Oakdale Campus and Coral Ridge Mall. Two bedroom, one bathroom. First floor unit. Dish- washer, microwave, fireplace, W/D, garage. $700, first month free. SouthGate, (319)339-9320 s-gate.com FOREST RIDGE ESTATES on Benton St.- Two bedrooms, two bathrooms, dishwasher, central air, on-site laundry, two free parking spots. $615- $645. SouthGate, (319)339-9320 www.s-gate.com FIRST month rent free. Rent ne- gotiable. Two bedroom apart- ment available now. Coralville, near mall. Dishwasher, laundry on-site. Water/ sewer paid. On busline. (319)351-4452. FALL LEASING Near UI and downtown. Two bedroom, one & two baths. Near shuttle, parking & laundry. -505 E.Jefferson, $899 H/W pd -716 E.Burlington, $849 H/W pd -433 S.Johnson, hardwood flrs, $911 H/W pd -322 N.VanBuren, $888 H/W pd Call (319)351-7676. DAILY IOWAN CLASSIFIEDS 335-5784; 335-5785 e-mail: daily-iowan- classified@uiowa.edu TWO BEDROOM CORALVILLE. Two bedroom, one bathroom. February free. New flooring, cabinets, doors, and appliances. On bus route. Private entrance. $560/ month. Call (319)631-5578. BRAND NEW, North Liberty, August 1, 2006. Two bedroom, two bathroom, garage, W/D. great location. Rae-Matt Proper- ties, (319)351-1219 raematt.com BEST deal. Close. Westside. $500. W/D connections, dish- washer. (319)339-8069. AVAILABLE now. Sublease two bedroom. Bus route. Outside ac- cess. Pets. N.Dodge. (517)673-8252. AVAILABLE now. Starting at $596/ month. Downtown and westside. No pets. w w w . j a n d j a p t s . c o m (319)466-7491. AVAILABLE May 1st. Large two bedroom, one bathroom on Westwinds Drive. W/D in unit, balcony, free parking. Flexible move-in date. $625/ month. Call (319)621-4764. AVAILABLE ANYTIME. Iowa City. New two bedroom. $700. (319)594-3559.. ARE YOU LOOKING FOR THE HIGHEST QUALITY AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS? IF YOU ARE AND ARE SEEKING A QUIET ENVIRONMENT ALSO, PLEASE VISIT www.parsonsproperties.net FOR MORE INFORMATION. AD#938. Two bedroom with fire- place. $650 includes utilities. Pets? Coralville. (319)331-1120. AD#614. Two bedroom on the Westside. Pets okay. C/A, W/D facilities, parking. Call M-F, 9-5. (319)351-2178. AD#1102. Two bedroom, town- house, C/A, on busline. $550/ month plus utilities. W/D hook-ups. Pets? (319)331-1120. 2 BEDROOM, 2 bath, free ga- rage parking, swimming pool, laundry, elevator. Great student locations. Call ASI (319)621-6750. 929 IOWA AVE. New kitchen and bathroom. Door to deck in kitchen. Two spacious bedrooms. H/W included. $710/ month. Close to downtown. Call Claire at (319)573-6605 or Teresa at (319)573-6604. 725-1/2 BOWERY, $660, H/W paid, free parking. (319)321-3822, (319)330-2100. TWO BEDROOM Two bedroom luxury units Close to UIHC, Hwy 218 & Kinnick. Apply on-line. www.mikevandyke.com No applications fee. Fall or immediate availability. Call 248-0534 or 631-2659 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • TWO BEDROOM WALK to class! One bedroom, Berber carpet. Cozy! $500 plus electric. Available August 1. 614-1/2 N.Gilbert. (319)377-0967. SPACIOUS modern apartment. One block from Ped Mall. 1/2 month rent free. Available imme- diately. (563)940-1966. ONE bedroom- 711 Burlington, close to downtown. Hardwood floors/ air/ laundry/ parking/ wa- ter paid/ no pets. $565- $575. RCPM (319)887-2187. ONE bedroom, 725-1/2 Bowery, H/W paid, free parking, $485. (319)321-3822, (319)330-2100. ONE bedroom apartment. Close-in. $490/ month. H/W paid. Off-street parking included. No pets. Available now. (319)321-2239. ONE bedroom, Coralville. $470 H/W paid. Busline. No pets/ smokers. (319)354-2558. LARGE one bedroom with ex- pansive walls of windows in renovated, historic, downtown building. (319)338-1203. HIGHLY SELECTIVE Avaialble May 31 & August 1st. Non-smoking, quiet, one and two bedroom close to UIHC. Parking. $520- $610, H/W paid. Call (319)351-0942. ALWAYS ONLINE www.dailyiowan.com GREAT LOCATIONS AVAILABLE AUGUST One bedrooms and efficiencies. Downtown, near U of I. 121 E.Davenport, $825 + util.. 332 E.Washington, $718 H/W & cable paid. 108 S.Linn, $610 water paid. 407 N.Dubuque, $594 cable paid. 340 E.Burlington, lofts, $845 wa- ter paid. 509 S.Linn, $575 water and ca- ble paid. Call (319)354-8331 FIRST MONTH FREE.! Lantern Park Apartments. Great Coralville location. One bedroom, one bathroom. H/W paid. Some newly renovated. $450- $475. SouthGate, (319)339-9320, s-gate.com FOREST RIDGE ESTATES on Benton St.- One bedroom, one bathroom, dishwasher, central air, on-site laundry, one free parking spot. $540- $560. SouthGate, (319)339-9320 www.s-gate.com FOR AUGUST 1st. Clean, quiet, close-in, 433 S.VanBuren. $550, H/W paid, parking, laundry. No pets. (319)331-3523, (319)351-8098, (630)660-2671. FALL LEASING Downtown near UI campus. One bedrooms & efficiencies. -320 E.Burlington-loft, $715 H pd -312 E.Burlington, $569 W pd -601 S.Gilbert, $662 H/W pd -523 E.Burlington, $569 H/W pd -510 S.VanBuren, $567 H/W pd Call (319)351-7676. EFFICIENCY sublet available immediately through July 31. Lu- cas St. Close to campus. $410/ month plus deposit. Parking available. Yard, patio, lots of storage, large kitchen. Call Adam, (319)430-3327. EFFICIENCY / ONE BEDROOM Classifieds Classifieds Classifieds Classifieds 335-5784335-5784 THE DAILY IOWAN CLASSIFIEDS MAKE CENTS!! 335-5784 335-5785 Rm. E131 Adler Journalism pitchers, it’s mentally tough out there. I pitched a little bit in high-school but it’s nothing compared to college …” “Well, what about work- outs?” he was asked “Actually, they have it a lit- tle rougher than us,” he admitted. “They run quite a bit more than us to get their legs in shape. We get our work in, too, but that’s a tough one.” Head coach Jack Dahm and the rest of the coaching staff pegged 2006 on their radar as the season in which the pitch- ing staff would excel. It started in the recruiting process, Dahm said, and he knew that pitching could be a strength of the team. “The nicest thing is when you look at our seniors, they’ve pitched a lot,” Dahm said. “And they had some suc- cess last year. There’s going to be some more dominating staffs, maybe, in the Big Ten and in the Midwest, but, from top to bottom, we’ve got a very solid pitching staff.” So why the high praise? For starters, a main reason is the starters. This year’s depth in the starting rotation is unprecedented, along with a relief pitcher who had one of the best pitching seasons in Big Ten history a year ago, in closer Tim Gudex. He etched an exclamation mark or peri- od to the end of 13 games last season, seven times earning a win and six times earning a save — leading the conference in both categories. He was also tops in the Big Ten in ERA (1.11), appearances (19), games in relief (19), games finished (19), and opposing batting average (.205). The excitement around the pitching builds even more when you look at who the starting rotation lost from last year’s team. No one. Starter and team leader in strikeouts, Luke O’Loughlin, is back for his senior season, and though he had back sur- gery in the off-season, he should be set for another solid year. Lefty senior Jeff Mait- land offers a different look to opposing lineups, while senior Austin Seward adds more experience. Along with the seniors, three newbies will don the black and gold on the hill — and could contribute immediately — in transfers Chase Stephens, Sean Radke, and David Conroy. “As far as starters go, it’s one of the top, if not the top rotation I’ve been on,” Gudex said. “We have a lot of options. It’ll be great to keep every- body fresh.” Having those extra bodies will help keep the pitchers fresh but so will their “off day” regimen. It’s part of the rea- son these Iowa pitchers aren’t seen as slackers and, unlike Mr. Maddux, have little time to work on their golf game. “I’ve gotta say, it’s Coach Zumsande. He doesn’t take it easy on these pitchers, at all,” Dahm said. “There are a lot of programs where the pitchers leave practice 45 minutes early. Not here. The guys who are still here are pitchers run- ning. Coach Zumsande demands a lot from them. And that’s why our pitching staff has made so much progress.” E-mail DI reporter Ted McCartan at: theodore-mccartan@hotmail.com“I hope with the experience that we have, I hope we can lean on them a little bit, early in the season,” Dahm said. “We just have so much depth, so much internal competi- t ion, and guys who have experience.” The bullpen possesses some heavy expectations. All-Big Ten closer Tim Gudex was named preseason Big Ten Pitcher of the Year by Collegiate Baseball. Gudex led the league in wins, saves, ERA, appearances, games in relief, games finished, and opposing batting average. Iowa will also feature sen- iors Aaron Reasland, juniors Scott Brune and Chris Zinn, sophomore Sean Radke, red- shirt fresh- man Josh Wheatly, and true freshmen Jordan Auer- bach, Nick Erdman, and Justin Toole in relief. “Pitching is def initely a s t r e n g t h ,” Gudex said. “We definitely can’t rely on pitching. You can’t real ly rely on one aspect of the game. We just have to play good team base- ball, and pitching happens to be one part of the game.” The Hawkeyes will be look- ing to fill in some gaps on offense. Iowa lost Andy Lytle, Kris Welker, Nate Yoho, and Jesse Brownell to Major League Baseball, forcing others to contribute this season. Iowa will begin its regular season play on Feb. 24 in the Austin Peay Tournament. The field will include the host school, Ill inois State, and Dayton. The Hawkeyes’ first home game is on March 24 against Indiana-Purdue-Fort Wayne. “Teams have noticed us,” said Nate Price, a second- team all-conference outfielder. “We hustle on the field, and we get after teams, and they take notice of that. It’s going to continue to get harder, every year, for us, and we’ve got to step up our game every year, because, eventually, teams are going to be gunning for us.” E-mail DI reporter Ryan Long at: ryan-long-2@uiowa.edu 6B - The Daily Iowan - Iowa City, Iowa - Thursday, February 16, 2006 SPORTS No Aussie was begging to come back with him as he departed, but Anderson said it is the reaction he expected. “Sometimes it takes a year or two years to see any results,” he said. “I didn’t go to Australia thinking I would come back with two, three, or four kids.” He has a problem with the high-school students who turn a deaf ear and a blind eye to the state of Iowa. “If they’re serious about edu- cation, then it’s not hard to mar- ket this place,” he said. Head women’s track and field coach James Grant, a native of Jamaica, agreed with Anderson about the quality and attrac- tiveness of an Iowa education, but he also contended that it is easier to sell Iowa abroad than inside this country’s borders. “You know something, it’s easier [to recruit internationally] than talking to someone from Florida,” said Grant. “The weath- er here is a major deterrent.” Grant plucked junior Peaches Roach from Jamaica and sopho- more Kineke Alexander from St.Vincent — both have already provisionally qualified for the NCAA indoor championships, with weeks to spare. “Kids such as them really rel- ish that opportunity,” said Grant. Anderson agreed, calling Iowa schooling a golden opportunity. To lure in future Roachs and Alexanders, Anderson said, he plans on flexing his people skills. “I befriend people pretty eas- ily,” he said. “Rather than throw out statistics, I get to know them. I’d rather not use a Power Point presentation. I’m not selling a vacuum cleaner.” Anderson’s American recruits and current members of the Hawk roster say they won’t be surprised if more international stars decide to join their ranks. “I was incredibly close to my high-school coach,” said sopho- more distance runner Molly Esche.“I was worried that I would never find anyone else like him. “My second to last college visit was Iowa. I met Layne, and it was automatic. I don’t think you could ask for a better coach.” E-mail DI reporter Dan Parr at: daniel-parr@uiowa.edu ANDERSON CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1B Dahm Iowa coach Pitchers the backbone Baseball ready to go Coach travels all over ‘I befriend people pretty easily. Rather than throw out statistics, I get to know them. I’d rather not use a Power Point presentation. I’m not selling a vacuum cleaner..’ — Layne Anderson, Iowa coach PITCHING CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1B BASEBALL CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1B ‘There are a lot of programs where the pitchers leave practice 45 minutes early. Not here. The guys who are still here are pitchers running. Coach Zumsande demands a lot from them. And that’s why our pitching staff has made so much progress.’ — Jack Dahm, Iowa coach Laura Schmitt/The Daily Iowan Baseball Hawkeyes Skyler Moss (6), Jason White (7), and Ryan Considine take practice swings in the bubble during Wednesday afternoon’s practice. THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2006 WWW.DAILYIOWAN.COM HOURS F r o m T h u r s d a y e v e n i n g t o S u n d a y n i g h t — t h e W e e k e n d i n A r t s & C u l t u r e Handmade music (ABOVE): Ed Kottick’s hand-detailed full-sized harpsichord. (DIRECT LEFT): Franklin Miller shows off his mandolin prototype in his office. (BOTTOM LEFT): Kottick behind an upright harpsichord. Ed Kottick No, harpsichords are not merely the tinker toys of 17th-century powder-wigged composers. In 1964, a trombonist with an ear for Renaissance music built a harpsichord from a kit bought for $250 and a 4-by-8 sheet of plywood. Today, his elaborate homemade creations are worth an estimated $50,000. But Ed Kottick, 76, now a retired UI music professor, never received formal harpsichord training — not in performance or construction. “There was something about the instrument that really drew me to it,” says Kottick, a buoyant man whose ensemble of handcrafted works includes a number of clavichords,pianos, a gamba, a medieval fiddle, and guitars. Impressed with his work, Zuckerman Harpsichords International hired him to construct harpsichords from its kits on commission — the same company that manufactured the first kit he worked from. Today, he writes the instruction manuals and designs instruments for Zuckerman. “The word kit is a little misleading,” Kottick says. “Most of what you get is wooden parts that were cut out for you.” He says the builder still has much work to do, whether one shapes the wood or pays a company to complete the preliminary step. His attentive craftsmanship allows for two harpsichords a year, though he continues to build clavichords continually, as well as an occasional wild-card instrument. “It’s a hobby with me,” he says. “I don’t really care how long it takes. I just try to do the best I can.” Kottick works in a two-room shop he set up in his basement. One room houses six machines used for cutting wood — the other, the tools used to create his work’s adornments. “People assume that building a harpsichord is a woodworking project,” he says. “It is, but the woodworking part, if you have any skill at all, is really rather simple, straightforward cabinet-making.” The difficulty in harpsichord construction, he says, comes in understanding the musical mechanics of the instrument. Know the music before knowing anything else. “In designing any kind of string instrument, you start with the scale: the length of some particular note,” he says. “When you establish that, you know what pitch the instrument is going to be in, and then you go from there.” Having mastered the logistics, Kottick works toward fashioning each instrument toward the specific historical periods and countries from which they originated. “I am building in a particular tradition, and there are reasons that they did things in those traditions. All have their own problems and their own solutions to those problems,” says Kottick, who occasionally returns to continue working on a piece after its initial completion. One started out cheap. Another began as a scientist. Yet another has considered it as a post-retirement hobby. Their work’s music resonates off the stained-glass windows of European cathedrals; their masterpieces harmonize with cross-country symphonies. And while their clients celebrate these elegant results abroad, local instrument-makers’ creations begin with hardware store- bought tools and woodblocks in Iowa City basements. SEE INSTRUMENTS, PAGE 3C Andrei Perkhounkov — Lute Franklin Miller — Mandolin Ed Kottick — Harpsichord STORY BY JESSICA FISCHOFF • PHOTOS BY LAURA SCHMITT THE DAILY IOWAN MUSIC • Center for New Music, David Gompper, director, 4 p.m., Clapp Recital Hall • The Black Watch and the Band of the Welsh Guards, 7:30 p.m., Hancher Auditorium • Afro-American Cul- tural Center Black His- tory Month Events, Old School Jam, 8 p.m., Afro- American Cultural Center • North American Saxophone Alliance, UI Saxophone Ensem- ble, Kenneth Tse, director with Jean- Yves Fourmeau and Debra Richtmeyer, saxophones, 8 p.m., Clapp • Chicago Afrobeat Project and New Beat Society, 9 p.m., Yacht Club, 13 S. Linn • Fundamental Ele- ments, with the Red Smear, 9 p.m., Mill, 120 E. Burlington FILM • Blues for a Cause: The Guru’s Game, 7 p.m., Englert Theatre, 221 E. Washington • Proseminar in Cine- ma and Culture Spring 2006: Human Rights Film, First Blood, 7 p.m., 101 Becker Commu- nication Studies Building THEATER • Death of a Salesman, 7 p.m., Riverside Theater, 213 N. Gilbert • Love’s Labour’s Lost, 8 p.m., Theatre Building Mabie Theatre • The Humanities Divi- sion, Sean Lewis, 8 p.m., Theatre Building Theatre B WORDS • “Live from Prairie Lights,” Karla Kelsey and Susan Maxwell, fic- tion and poetry, 7 p.m., Prairie Lights Books, 15 S. Dubuque, and WSUI MISC. • Black Love Week, time TBA, campus-wide • Afro-American Cul- tural Center Black His- tory Month Events, “Sex Bowl: How Well Do You Know Your Mate?,” 6:30 p.m.,Afro-American Cultural Center THURSDAY 2.16 THURSDAY 2.16 FRIDAY 2.17 SATURDAY 2.18 SUNDAY 2.19 TUESDAY 2.21 TUESDAY 2.21 MONDAY 2.20 FRIDAY 2.17 WEDNESDAY 2.22 NEW RELEASE ar ts&cul ture8800 HOURS CONTINUED CONTINUED CONTINUED • African Reinstalla- tion, John Monroe, 7:30 p.m., UI Museum of Art • Campus Activities Board Event, comedi- an Jamie Lissow, 9 p.m., 56 IMU MUSIC • Annie Gaines, singer and pianist, noon, UIHC Colloton Atrium • North American Saxo- phone Alliance Concert, 5 p.m., UI Museum of Art • Big Wooden Radio, 8 p.m., Mill • North American Saxo- phone Alliance, Johnson County Landmark Jazz Band, John Rapson, director, with Matt Olson, Thomas Walsh, and Bennie Wallace, sax- ophones, 8 p.m.., Clapp • Family Groove Com- pany and Electric Junc- tion, 9 p.m.,Yacht Club • Lucky Boys Confu- sion, with 15 Minutes Late, 9 p.m., Gabe’s, 330 E. Washington FILM • New Nationalisms, an East Asia writers’ sym- posium, The New God film screening, 6:30 p.m., 335 IMU THEATER • The Vagina Mono- logues, 7 p.m., Medical Education and Biomedical Research Facility • Death of a Salesman, 8 p.m., Riverside Theatre • Love’s Labour’s Lost, 8 p.m., Mabie Theatre • The Humanities Divi- sion, Sean Lewis, 8 p.m., Theatre B LECTURES • Writers’ Workshop Lecture Series, “Surre- alism,” Dean Young, 4 p.m., Shambaugh House WORDS • “Live from Prairie Lights” Steve Semken, nonfiction, 7 p.m., Prairie Lights and WSUI MISC. • Black Love Week, time TBA, campus-wide • Afro-American Cul- tural Center Black History Month Events, “Bigger, Better, Blacker,” 8 a.m.-5 p.m., IMU • Afro-American Cul- tural Center Black His- tory Month Events, Question Party with BGAPS, 7-9 p.m., Afro- American Cultural Center MUSIC • “Give Peace a Chance Benefit Con- cert,” 7:30 p.m., Mill • North American Saxophone Alliance, Symphony Band Myron Welch, conduc- tor, with Kenneth Tse, Timothy Roberts, and William Street, saxo- phones, 8 p.m., Hancher • Bob Marley Birth- day Bash featuring Public Property, 9 p.m., Yacht Club FILM • Film Festival Fea- turing Contemporary French Cinema, The 10th District Court: Moment of Trial, 3 p.m., 101 Becker THEATER • Death of a Salesman, 8 p.m., Riverside Theatre • The Humanities Division, Sean Lewis, 8 p.m., Theatre B • Love’s Labour’s Lost, 8 p.m., Mabie Theatre MISC. • Afro-American Cul- tural Center Black History Month Events, “Bigger, Bet- ter, Blacker,” 8 a.m.-5 p.m., IMU • Give Peace a Chance Benefit Con- cert, 7:30 p.m., Mill • SCOPE Event, Felix Culpa, 8 p.m., 56 IMU • Sweethearts Dance, 8 p.m.-midnight,Afro- American Cultural Center MUSIC • Bluegrass Brunch, 11 a.m.-2 p.m., Mill • Honor Band, 2:30 p.m., Hancher • Peter Linton Powell, organ lecture recital, 3 p.m., Voxman Music Building, Krapf Organ Studio, • Oteil and the Peace- makers, 9 p.m., Mill • Since By Man, Russ- ian Circles, 9 p.m., Gabe’s THEATER • Death of a Salesman, 2 p.m., Riverside Theatre • Love’s Labour’s Lost, 2 p.m., Mabie Theatre • The Humanities Division, Sean Lewis, 2 p.m., Theatre B MISC. • SCOPE Event, Jeff Tweedy, 7:30 p.m., IMU Ballroom • Cultural Diversity Festival, noon-5 p.m., Field House • Sunday Night Pub Quiz, 9 p.m., Mill MUSIC • Open Mike with Jay Knight, 8 p.m., Mill • Fall of Troy, Blackout Pact, and Protest the Hero, 9 p.m., Gabe’s LECTURES • “Afro-Caribbean Legacies: Memory, Rit- ual, Resistance,” and “Horse-Headed Woman: The Hybrid Art of Lydia Cabrera and Wil- fredo Lam,” Diana Davies, 4 p.m., 305 Eng- lish-Philosophy Building WORDS • “Live from Prairie Lights,” Dominic Smith, fiction, 7 p.m., Prairie Lights and WSUI MISC. • “Globalization and Nationalism in Post- War German Pop Music,” Ulrich Adelt, noon, Iowa City Public Library Meeting Room A, 123 S. Linn • Boxes and Walls, 6-10 p.m., Quadrangle MUSIC • Mingus Big Band, 7:30 p.m., Hancher FILM • Israeli Film Series, Yana’s Friends, 7 p.m., Hillel Foundation, 122 E. Market MISC. • “The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People, 8 a.m., University Services Building • Boxes and Walls, 6-10 p.m., Quadrangle • Poetry Slam, 10 p.m., Mill MUSIC • Low, 9 p.m., Mill • Sublime Tribute, 10 p.m., Yacht Club LECTURE • Geneva Campus Ministry Undergradu- ate Spring Events, “Christian Views on War and Peace,” 7 p.m., Danforth Chapel WORDS • “Live from Prairie Lights,” Marvin Bell, poetry, 7 p.m., Prairie Lights and WSUI MISC. • “The Seven Habits of Highly Effective Peo- ple,” 8 a.m., University Services Building New York Doll Bijou: 7 p.m. Thursday, Friday, Tuesday; 5 p.m. Saturday, Sunday; 8:45 p.m. Saturday; 9 p.m. Monday, Wednesday Admission: $5 Synopsis: Arthur “Killer” Kane was once a member of the infamous New York Dolls: cross- dressing, drug- and alco- hol-abusing harbingers of the punk-rock revolu- tion. Now a recovering alcoholic and converted Mormon, we first meet the modern-day mild- mannered Kane on the LA bus he takes to his job at the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter- Day Saint’s family-histo- ry center library. But Kane jumps at a request by rock star Morrissey (former president of the New York Dolls fan club) for the Dolls to reunite for two shows. No one knew how the Dolls would perform after such a long hiatus. But Kane had no doubts. Sarah Mercier/The Daily Iowan During a dress rehearsal for The Humanities Division on Tuesday in the theater building, Tom, a professor played by Sam Hunter, has an affair with Amy, a student played by Melanie Jess. Director and playwright Sean Lewis based the five-character plot on how affairs affect relationships. WHAT’S GOIN’ ON SUNDAY 2.19 CONTINUED MP3S Give a listen • Scottie Long Trio “Walking Alone” five- track EP IF YOU LIKE IT • See the Dog and Everything with Scottie Long and Fires at Night, 9 p.m. today, Gabe’s, 330 E. Washington St., $6 for ages 19 and older. • The Plastic Constella- tions’ “Iron City Jungle” and “Sancho Panza” off its album Crusades VIDEO • DI videographer Aaron Preusch’s video of local instrument makers’ classical and experimen- tal creations. WEB GOODIES Elevator to the Gallows Bijou: 9 p.m. Thursday; 8:45 p.m. Friday, Tues- day; 6:45 p.m. Saturday, Sunday; 3 p.m. Sunday; 7 p.m. Monday, Wednes- day Admission: $5 Synopsis: Long unseen, Louis Malle’s 1957 mas- terpiece returns with a restored 35-mm print. Scheming lovers Julien (Maurice Ronet) and Flo- rence (Jeanne Moreau) engineer the “perfect murder” of her husband. But when Julien attempts to tie up one more loose end (literally … a rope dangling from the dead man’s office window), he becomes trapped between floors in the title conveyance, with precious minutes ticking away before the police discover the vic- tim’s body. A stunning debut that won the then 24-year-old director Malle the prestigious Prix Delluc, France’s highest film award, Ele- vator to the Gallows ush- ered in the French New Wave and made an inter- national superstar of cool beauty Moreau, here giving perhaps the most iconic performance of her career. NEW RELEASE CONTINUED 2C - The Daily Iowan - Iowa City, Iowa - Thursday, February 16, 2006 “There is no such thing as the perfect instrument,” he says. His most prized creation remains a harpsichord built in an 18th-century French style. Kottick displays his meticulous detailing through the brightly hand-painted bird motif travers- ing the casing. He explains that the scene of a sparrow perched on the limb of a dead tree with live branches winding from beneath is particular to the French belief that the harpsi- chord is a symbol of resurrection. “In order to make a harpsi- chord, you have to kill a tree to get the lumber,” he says. “From that dead lumber, you make something that sings and comes alive.” Andrei Perkhounkov People have been married, divorced, and remarried in the time Andrei Perkhounkov takes to make a violin. He needs 400 hours for each. The 42-year-old divides his time between teaching mathe- matics at Kirkwood Community College and constructing violins in his basement workshop. Perkhounkov, whose deliberate and throaty speech evokes his Russian roots, moved from Moscow to Iowa City in 1991. Though he began violin lessons at age 7, he initially approached instrument-making from a scientific standpoint rather than as an artful exploration. Perkhounkov studied at the University of Aerospace Technology in Moscow, where he specialized in nonlinear vibra- tion. He became acquainted with workers in a state- sponsored acoustic lab who researched the objective measurements of musical instruments. Through knowing them, he began to understand the art involved in building his childhood instrument. In 1986, he became a full-time violin- and lute- maker, devoting as many as 12 hours a day perfecting his craft. And he estimates a violin requires roughly a month-and- a-half’s worth of time. “I don’t make as many as I used to, but I’ve made quite a few,” Perkhounkov says. Before he took his teaching position, he was able to finish 10 violins a year, and now says he averages four. But, with each instrument, he finds time for improvement. “I start considering what should I change, compared with the previous instrument,” he says, hoping to enhance each subsequent piece’s appearance and sound. But he also continues to build those instruments common centuries ago. “It’s very interesting how instruments can evolve from one instrument to another,” he says. Perkhounkov sketches the designs for many of his lute- family creations, polishing these plans after attending visiting instrument exhibits at muse- ums and conducting research. He must also satisfy his buyers, who often want the tailored version of these antiquated pieces. “[My clients] usually want compromises,” he says. “They want an instrument for a certain period, but they want to play music a little prior to that period or a little over that period.” Franklin Miller Franklin Miller lies awake at night thinking about instru- ments that don’t exist. Yet. The professor in the UI department of cinema and comparative literature developed a passion for music during his college years, in the early ’60s at the height of the folk-music revival. “[In those days], the really good [instruments] were really expensive,” he says. “They were rare, and everybody knew they were worth money, and only the big people had them. So, from my perspective, people started to build their own.” Miller, a folk musician at the time, wanted to build his own mandolin. A student at Ohio State University, he combed the scrap bin of the student wood shop in search of materials. Armed only with his memory of a mandolin’s image, his eventual piece looked far different than what he had pictured. “It’s a misshapen, totally surrealistic mandolin,” he says. “It’s almost a parody of a mandolin.” His mistake inspired him to blueprint and attempt to build again the next year. Now, he aspires to create cousins to his Frankenstein’s prototype. “In those days, the closer you could make it like a genuine thing, the better,” he says. “Now, I’m trying to make it as unlike the genuine thing that I can.” Today, Miller, whose current teaching focuses on animation, combines 3-D modeling with what he believes are the endless possibilities for instrument design. He first designs the instrument’s image before determining its ability to produce sound. “I have to see it in order to think about it,” he says. “You’re probably making one-and-a- half instruments every time. You’re making an instrument that you build just to see if it’s an instrument at all, then you go back and start over and build the one you want to build.” Though his film and academic career take up the majority of his time, he fervently awaits the day he will open a shop for the abstract instruments he conceptualizes. Despite their technologic roots, he wants to create nothing but unplugged music-makers. “I want to work acoustically,” he says. “If you open up the world to electronics and com- puters, the sky is the limit, but I want that sense of craft.” E-mail DI reporter Jessica Fischoff at: jessica-fischoff@uiowa.edu INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1C The Daily Iowan - Iowa City, Iowa - Thursday, February 16, 2006 - 3C ar ts&cul ture 8800 HOURS Crafting by hand, playing by ear DEFINED: • HARPSICHORD A keyboard instrument with horizontal strings that are plucked mechanically. Similar to a piano. • LUTE A guitar-like instrument with a long neck and a pear-shaped body. Much used in the 14th to 17th centuries. Laura Schmitt/The Daily Iowan Ed Kottick tunes a harpsichord he designed and built in his Iowa City home on Feb. 9. Laura Schmitt/The Daily Iowan UI cinema and comparative literature Professor Franklin Miller tunes a mandolin he carved in 1964 on Tuesday. BY ANNA WIEGENSTEIN THE DAILY IOWAN The current number of accepted students for Sean Lewis’ alma mater, Binghamton Univer- sity, is 2,158, in the neighborhood of one-14th of the UI’s fall 2005 enrollment of 29,642. But returning to a collegiate setting, albeit much larger than his own, proved to be a creative windfall for the 27-year-old. The result? His 90-minute play, The Humanities Division, which will open this weekend as a UI Gallery Production. Set in an unconventional scholastic setting, Division tells the story of husband-and-wife professors and the trials their marriage is put through after not only the death of a child but the revelation that the husband has been carrying on an affair with a student. In describing the genesis for the play, Lewis recalled his first semester as a teaching assistant at the UI and how freely students traded stories in front of him. “I don’t know if gossip is more prevalent anywhere more than on a college campus,” he said. That atmosphere of rumors and consistent drama inflated to epic proportions is a definite part of the world the play takes place in. “The way that college men and women flirt …” Lewis said, laughing. “It’s a very different kind of courtship.” Lewis, a Playwrights’ Work- shop student, is both writer and director for the production, a feat that proved to be both frustrating and rewarding. “There have definitely been times when I think, ‘I can’t believe I wrote this. It’s so hard,’ ” Lewis said, noting the number of locations in the play and the speed with which the site changes forced participants to be creative in the staging. Having such a large amount of artistic control can be some- what scary, he said. “You have absolutely no one else to blame at that point,” he said. So, ultimately, the resulting performances are extremely gratifying. “In the end, theater has to be fun. It’s kind of like a party,” he said, adding that while it may sound self-indulgent, the ability to ask himself what he would like to see on stage helped him to reshape scenes. “I’m trying to write theater for people in their 20s and 30s, because most people don’t.” Although small — the cast is a whopping five people — Division was selected as a UI Gallery Production, based on a reading last May at the Iowa New Play Festival, and thus granted use of Theatre B, along with some university funding. The subject matter doesn’t, at first, seem like the stuff of belly laughter, but Lewis emphasized the black comedy moments in Division that make the play move from “funny to vicious to poignant.” The personalities represented on stage would resonate with audience members as people they recognize, he said. “In a way, they’ll be taken on a tour of the university, and I think it’ll be something very enjoyable.” E-mail DI reporter Anna Wiegenstein at: anna-wiegenstein@uiowa.edu Flirting with campus intrigue WATCH THE MUSIC- MAKERS DISCUSS THEIR CRAFT. WWW.DAILYIOWAN.COM BY MAGGIE ANDERSON THE DAILY IOWAN Some might think African power figures and ceremonial masks would not fit so comfort- ably into an Iowa museum as, say, a painting by Grant Wood. But with 56 countries, a sur- face area three times the size of the United States, and the largest estimated regional pop- ulation increase over the next five decades, according to Cen- sus.gov, learning about African culture is obviously becoming increasingly relevant for Amer- icans — especially because African artists tend to view art differently from people in the Western world. “When [Picasso] first encoun- tered African sculpture, he found it scary,” said John Mon- roe, an assistant history profes- sor at ISU and a UI Museum of Art curatorial fellow for the reinstallation of the African art exhibition. The museum’s African art collection ranks among the top in the nation and consists of 1,500 African artifacts, 700 of which were donated by C. Maxwell and Elizabeth Stanley. Monroe’s 40-work Time and Space in African Art opened on Jan. 27. The exhibit, rearranged to make room for the new ceramics gallery com- ing in June, explores museum’s methods of display and label- ing in relation to African art. Monroe will give a lecture and tour today at 7:30 p.m. at the Art Museum. “[Africans], of course, have art; it’s just appreciated in a different context,” Monroe said. “The museum is all about creating a quiet space where you go in and appreciate. For example, I have white gloves when I handle the objects.” Art museums aim to use tidy, history-free labels for Western art: artist, title, date of birth and death. Curators assume the viewer “gets it” — it is art; it doesn’t require too much his- torical clarification, right? But African art throws labeling conventions to the wind. Pieces with unknown authorship and titles as generic as “Ritual Object” force museums to include clarifying contextual details in labels. Part of the lack of informa- tion about African artists stems from the first major African art collectors’ misconception in the early 20th century that African artists simply rehashed culture rather than creating original compositions. “They collected [African art] the way they would collect specimens, like frogs: by species, phylum,” Monroe said. But African artists responded to their changing environment as would any other creator, molding and shaping their art to respond to outside influences. Take the room’s presiding piece, Mamy Wata (1975), by Joseph Chukwu of Nigeria. As the goddess of foreign things, Mamy Wata sits on an altar surrounded by foreign objects — perfume bottles, sunglass- es, bottles of Scotch. Tribe members created the deity in deliberate response to the simultaneous cultural heartache and economic expansion stemming from international influences. Another example, the Power Figure from the Eastern Pende tribe of the Democratic Republic of Congo, was created to fend off attacks from Belgium colonial invaders. The spirit obtained her power from the rope, cloth, and shells draped about her neck and waist and herbs stuffed inside the wooden shell. “African artists are always responding to their changing reality,” Monroe said. But something of the mystique is lost in translation from life to label. The objects themselves fail to capture the action that surrounds them — the sense of art as a verb, as Monroe put it. He enlivens the objects by screening a video by Christo- pher Roy, a UI professor of art, of contemporary ceremonial practices in Burkina Faso. Opposite the video screen, a mask typically displayed alone sits atop a towering skirt of raf- fia fiber, mirroring the object’s pragmatic use in the film. “In Africa, it’s not art as use- less but beautiful,” Monroe said. “It’s about integrating art into daily life.” Regarded as “barbarian” and “menacing” in the 1800s and early 1900s, views on African art have changed greatly. Picasso eventually, and famously, incorporated African art elements into his work — the faces of his figures in his Cubist exploration Les Demoiselles D’Avignon bear traces of African masks — and museums attempt to contex- tualize African art to speak to audiences meaningfully. “It’s like any other art,” Mon- roe said. “It has lots of things to say.” E-mail DI reporter Maggie Anderson at: margaret-anderson@uiowa.edu 4C - The Daily Iowan - Iowa City, Iowa - Thursday, February 16, 2006 THE BAR ar ts&cul ture8800 HOURS ART John Monroe Lecture and Exhibition Tour, “Time and Space in African Art” When: 7:30 p.m. today Where: African Gallery at the UI Museum of Art Admission: Free Out of AFRICA ‘In Africa, it’s not art as useless but beautifuI. It’s about integrating art into daily life.’ — John Monroe, assistant history professor at ISU and a UI Museum of Art curatorial fellow for the reinstallation of the African art exhibition Aaron Hall Holmgren/The Daily Iowan Carved figures line the walls in the UI Museum of Art’s African art exhibition on Wednesday afternoon. The 40-work exhibit, Time and Space in African Art, is curated by ISU faculty member John Monroe, and it comes from the museum’s vast collection of African artifacts, which ranks among the nation’s best. BY ERIK FARSETH THE DAILY IOWAN “We love Iowa City,” Plastic Constellation guitarist Jeff Allen told The Daily Iowan recently by phone. “We’ve been there many times, partially because of our connection to the [former Iowa City hard-core band] Ten Grand. But it’s one of our favorite places to play, one of our favorite towns to visit.” Fresh from a three-week tour with Frenchkiss label mates the Hold Steady, Plastic Constellations is set to return to Iowa City for a Saturday night concert with Bound Stems, Brian Jones, and the Occasions at Gabe’s. With a new album — Cru- sades — and a new record label, Plastic Constellations has come a long way from its early days as a high-school band playing at all-ages clubs. The 2006 album Crusades [Frenchkiss Records] is the fourth full-length release by the band, which mixes heavy distortion with hoarse, melod- ic vocals. Cervantes’ Don Quixote is a recurring theme, with such songs as “Sancho Panza” and “Quixote” casting the band in the titular role, eagerly tilting at rock ’n’ roll windmills: “We strapped on our armor / cause TPC are [sic] men of honor.” With its crunchy two-guitar assault, Plastic Constellations takes the melodic noise-pop of early Modest Mouse and turn it up to “11,” delivering a record that sounds an awful lot like New York indie-rockers Les Savvy Fav (which signed the Constellations to indie power- house Frenchkiss). This is post- hard core for kids who grew up listening to the Foo Fighters and Sunny Day Real Estate. And, as evinced by a recently sold-out record-release show, it seems to have struck a chord. Allen, barely containing his enthusiasm, said he and his bandmates feel confident about Crusades, recorded by Joe Mabbot, who has also worked with several hip-hop groups on the Minneapolis- based label Rhymesayers. In addition to Plastic Constella- tions, second guitarist Aaron Mader produces beats for underground hip-hop group the Doomtree Collective. “His producer name is ‘Razorbeak,’ ” Allen said. “Spelled with a ‘z,’ not an ‘s.’ ” With a full-length profile in the Minneapolis Star-Tribune and guest appearances on pub- lic radio, the Plastic Constella- tions has garnered a lot of media attention. The band has even turned up on the “Enter- tainment Weekly” website, on which music critic Ryan Don- bal raved about the new single “Iron City Jungles.” The Plastic Constellations has a long association with this neck of the Midwest as well — a bond that stems from its days touring the basement circuit with Iowa City rockers Ten Grand, whose lead singer, Matt Davis, died of a seizure in 2003. “He was a close friend of ours,” Allen said. “We were very close with Matt, and we’re still very close with the rest of the guys.” Formed in 1995, within a few years, the Plastic Constellations became the unofficial house band at the Foxfire Coffee Lounge, a short-lived all-ages venue located in downtown Min- neapolis. While there, the guys networked with other bands. One such group was Lifter Puller, which took the younger band from Hopkins High School under its wing. When Lifter Puller broke up, its lead singer, Craig Finn, relocated to New York, where he formed a new group, called the Hold Steady. And the rest is history. “Growing up in the Twin Cities, Lifter Puller — it loomed large,” Allen said. “That was a really big influence … And even now, [the members are] helping us out, six or seven years later. We just hooked up with the Hold Steady last night, and we’re [on tour] with it for two weeks.” Among the more memorable moments from its East Coast tour has been Plastic Constel- lations’ experience in Philadel- phia, where, Allen said, he got cornered by a bar owner who “just went off to me for about two hours about how liberals were ruining the country.” On another date in the City of Brotherly Love, at a cheese- steak joint called Geno’s, “they had all this literature up about how immigrants are ruining the country and how everyone should speak English — because it’s the American lan- guage,” Allen said. “So, it’s sort of like every time we go to Philly, we get inundated with right-wing politics.” One can only hope that the Plastic Constellations will have a more enlightened crowd when it gets to Iowa City. E-mail Erik Farseth at: erik-farseth@uiowa.edu BY ANNA WIEGENSTEIN THE DAILY IOWAN When thinking of Hancher Auditorium’s history of per- formances, likely the mind first jumps to musical and bal- let performances — but not one from an active Army regi- ment. That preconception will change tonight. Rol l ing into Iowa City approximately 70 strong, the Black Watch and the band of the Welsh Guard will play at Hancher, providing a lengthy selection of music ranging from Scotland, Ireland, Eng- land, and Wales. The groups will also periodically dip into a little Beethoven here, some “Amazing Grace” there. While the Black Watch sticks to playing bagpipes and drums, the Welsh Guard will provide a wider range of instrumentation, with trum- pets, trombones, and clar- inets, among others. The Black Watch — the 42nd Royal Highland, named such for its dark blue and green tartan kilts — has a history stretching back to its founding in the 18th century and participation on battles ranging from the French and Indian War up through the current war in Iraq. The Black Watch’s switch to musi- cal act may seem curious to some; to the members of the regiment, however, it’s a dif- ferent story. “Our music and our mili- tary organization are inex- orably intertwined,” said Capt. Will Colquhoun, the group’s platoon director, in an interview with the Lancaster Sunday Times. Coloquhoun later told the St. Louis Post-Dispatch that during operations in the regi- ments’ two tours in Iraq, including the invasions of Basra and Fallujah, “we made a point of having a piper play- ing. It’s good for morale, and it ’s a matter of tradition. There are always times, with- in operations, when we use the pipe band.” Recently returned from the war zone, the Black Watch returned to its routine tour. While in North America, it and the band of the Welsh Guard plan to hit 70 cities in 11 weeks. In addition to the interna- tional pipers, today’s festivities will also be a way for the UI Scottish Highlanders to make its presence known, both by dressing in its traditional Highland attire and with a booth in the Hancher lobby, detailing the piping groups in the area. Rosalind Buda, a member of the Scottish Highlanders, is a fan of traditional Scot- tish and Irish music, and she has l i s tened to the Black Watch since she was “a youngster.” “It is not often that a band of this caliber comes to a venue that we can easily access,” she said. “The Black Watch has a reputation of being one of the greatest tra- ditional staples of the Scottish regiments, and it not only presents the music of Scot- land beautifully, but also the dress and pageantry.” Being a fan of piping music already is definitely not a necessity for enjoying the Black Watch, she said. “I think this concert will be a great opportunity to experience, in full force, the flavor of Scot- tish piping music and give audience members a window into a wonderful genre of music.” E-mail DI reporter Anna Wiegenstein at: anna-wiegenstein@uiowa.edu The Daily Iowan - Iowa City, Iowa - Thursday, February 16, 2006 - 5C ar ts&cul ture 8800 HOURS WWW.DAILYIOWAN.COM GIVE A LISTEN The Plastic Constellations Crusads Featured tracks: • “Iron City Jungle” • “Sancho Panza” If you like it: See the band with Brian Jones, the Occasions, and Bound Stems, 9 p.m. Saturday, Gabe’s, 330 E. Washington St., $5. CONCERT The Black Watch and the band of the Welsh Guard When: 7:30 p.m. today Where: Hancher Auditorium Admission: $35/$38 general, $15 for UI students with ID Not-so-plastic CONNECTIONS Not your ordinary pipe music ‘It is not often that a band of this caliber comes to a venue that we can easily access. The Black Watch has a reputation of being one of the greatest traditional staples of the Scottish regiments, and it not only presents the music of Scotland beautifully, but also the dress and pageantry.’ — Rosalind Buda, member of the Scottish Highlanders BY ELIZABETH TUTTLE THE DAILY IOWAN “Woman secretly love to look at their vaginas” — if they didn’t, Eve Ensler would have no material to put in her 2001 book, The Vagina Monologues, for which she interviewed 200 women of all ethnicities, shapes, and sex changes and asked them to tell a story involving that one part of the body that, until 40 or so years ago, remained taboo. The result is a revolution for women everywhere.The book depicts women raped, abused, pleasured, and embarrassed — in short, situations that so many females have experienced. Based on the situations of abuse exposed in the book, author Ensler created V-Day, a campaign to stop violence against women and girls worldwide. It is an event that any organization may host for free, so long as it donates its profits to help stop violence against women and girls. V-Day started at Iowa three years ago, when the UI student group Medical Students for Choice got the rights from Ensler. The local organization helps abused women and offers post-abuse services free of charge, in addition to hosting events to provide aid to battered women. The Vagina Monologues is traditionally performed during V-Day to help spread aware- ness of sexual violence and to raise funds. The troupe comprises UI students and Iowa City residents who have volun- teered their time. UI senior Ann Tigges will read from the collection My Vagina is My Village, which includes the nonfiction account of a woman raped in Yugoslavia after soldiers had sacked her village during the war. “It is really intense, and I want to portray the confusion this woman feels,” Tigges said. “She wants to understand why this happened to her.” The show is directed by second-year medical student Sarah Cooper, who performed in the Vagina Monologues the previous year. While making her directorial debut, she is also an active member of Medical Students for Choice. Once a theater major, she had never before seen the show — until she performed in it. “These monologues are the original words of the women,” she said. “It’s a really nice mix of experiences, and it really opens people’s eyes to situations and helps women feel better about themselves.” Ginny Harris co-directs with Cooper; she is a 27-year-old medical student who has been involved with V-Day for all three years. This is the first year that she has not been an actor — instead, she has taken on the tasks of fundraising and creating publicity, in addition to co-directing. The Monologues “are great for awareness-raising and being comfortable, especially in the medical field,” she said. “It’s not about what we think of as the standard woman but what the experience of womanhood is. There are so many components to being a woman.” Another V-Day tradition is the awarding of “Vagina Warriors,” or women who have seen or experienced violence and have effectively worked to stop it. Up to three warriors can be honored by a hosting community. Karen Kubby, the executive director of the Emma Goldman Clinic and third-time actor in the Monologues, said, “There is such a cultural stigma about the vagina, and this is a fun, intense way to immerse yourself in a moment and celebrate your vagina. “You have to work to see your vagina, and the monologues make you work to think about it,” said the UI alum. “All the monologues have their place. They all fit together so nicely.” E-mail DI reporter Elizabeth Tuttle at: elizabeth-tuttle@uiowa.edu 6C - The Daily Iowan - Iowa City, Iowa - Thursday, February 16, 2006 ar ts&cul ture8800 HOURS THEATER Vagina Monologues When: 7 p.m. Friday Where: Medical Education and Biomedical Research Facility Admission: $15 general, $12 UI students with ID More info: Proceeds benefit the Emma Goldman clinic The vagina times Eve Ensler’s collection of genital tales hits the stage to benefit the Emma Goldman clinic ‘There is such a cultural stigma about the vagina, and this is a fun, intense way to immerse yourself in a moment and celebrate your vagina.’ — Karen Kubby executive director of the Emma Goldman clinic BY LOUIS VIRTEL THE DAILY IOWAN The UI theater department’s last two main-stage productions (Henrik Ibsen’s A Dollhouse and Suzan-Lori Parks’ In the Blood) focused on domestic turmoil under different but grim circumstances. Love’s Labour’s Lost marks a light-hearted departure. Written by theater’s five-act cowboy, William Shakespeare, Love’s Labour’s Lost is a romantic romp centered on a king, his three lords, and their abstinence from “earthly pleasures.” Sort of like the opposite of American Pie. Fortunately, the four men do fall in love, and their romantic entanglements become the source of song-and-dance interludes, touching dialogue, and some salacious iambic pentameter. The play will run today through Feb. 19 in Theatre Building Mabie Theatre. The cast is dominated by familiar graduate students from past Main Stage shows. Aaron Foster Dupree plays the king, a role that fits right in with his past stints as upstanding gentle- men more flawed then they want to believe (The Glass Menagerie, A Dollhouse). Terrence Monte, formerly the chariot-cruising, Bill-and-Ted-tinged Phaethon in Metamorphoses, plays another goof ball as Costard, a cargo- panted “fool,” as the program says. Other graduate-school regulars featured in Love’s Labour’s include Derek Degeyter as a lord to the king, Lauren Armstrong as the princess, and Aadya Bedi as the stately, poised French diplomat. Is it just me, or do those diplo- mats always have a monocle? As one might expect, the acting never lacks talent. Tom Truss, who plays the lisping, eccentric Armado, bounces around the stage, stealing the show with the co-ordination of a dancer and the smirk of a prudish librarian. He also delivers the hefty dialogue with the most panache. That dialogue, though some- what adapted to vernacular of the present day, remains witty, intricate, and, well, Shakespeare- an. The lines require active attention on the part of the audience, but the actors, for the most part, make an effort to accentuate funny lines. Still, even with contemporary flourishes and Degeyter shooting the audience a shifty eyebrow every time a sexual innuendo slides out, the play runs close to three hours long. No matter how much a pretentious theater student can obsess about Shakespeare, the material can be dry. Love’s Labour’s hits the same whimsical note throughout the three hours, which is at once a delight and a bit daunting. Similarly, some of those modern-day additions, including flat song-and-dance numbers and an offbeat loop of “Let’s Misbehave,” become a source of disorientation for the audience. However, the scenery (by far the most underrated aspect of UI theater) dazzles viewers with its luscious forestry, ethereal golden gate, and fly-in trees that evoke the charm of storybook illustrations. Lighting-wise, the cascading golden sheen on the stage is a perfect fit for Cupid (a recurring character) and his fate-piercing arrows. Love’s Labour’s is certainly a thumbs-up production, but audiences new to Shakespeare’s tireless plays might take note of the classic’s epic running time. Still, if there’s one Shakespearean play with the sentimental whimsy to transcend genera- tions, it’s this one, and any audi- ence can appreciate that. Or at very least — the pretty trees. E-mail DI reporter Louis Virtel at: louis-virtel@uiowa.edu No labor or love lost FEB. 20 DI WEB: CHECK OUT OUR VIDEO COVERAGE OF LOCAL PERFORMERS’ FORTHCOMING TRIBUTES TO V-DAY WWW.DAILYIOWAN.COM Rachel Mummey/The Daily Iowan Love’s Labour’s Lost, directed by Carol Macvey, will have its premiere today in E.C. Mabie Theatre. THEATER Love’s Labour’s Lost When: 8 p.m. today through Saturday, 3 p.m. Feb. 19 Where: Theatre Building Mabie Theatre Admission: $17 general, $8 UI students with ID, senior citizens and youth 
